## Orienting the table


In Ahmed's Queer Phenenology, she keenly defines orientation[^c3] as a way to situate the dialogue of direction. This move changes the scoping from a generalised and centralised dictation of direction that wider modernist philosophy denotes, to a situated and relational navigation of bodies. She does this by queering Husserl's figure of a table, his orientation towards it and his knowing of what is behind him as he does so (Ibid, 29). To do this she positions his back, and backgrounding of things, as the point of deviation that a queer phenomenology takes up in its analysis. At this inversion of direction and position sits the ability to wonder what is behind, to meander and imagine otherwise. Ahmed calls this "turning the tables"[^c4], where we situate a table by letting its background sink in and by caring for the work and maintenance that is often ''hidden from view\"(Ibid, 63) to enable these queer, crip, social and domestic tables to be generative discourses within research and thought. This is where tables become many, where they deviate from straight standardised and projected 'known' formulas and become complex assemblages, with histories, sedimentations and horizons.

The "bodily horizon"(Ibid, 55) is key to understanding Ahmed's figure, as it asks, what do we orient ourselves towards? What do we bring towards ourselves from our horizon, and what objects do we let slip from view and out of reach? When we acknowledge we have limits to our perception, that we cannot see the whole environment, image or figure, we must be in a context. Ahmed's horizon queers phenomenology's horizon and encourages us to consider our own orientation, situate ourselves within our bodily horizon of social and domestic relations and ask which orientations of space make our bodies feel out of place. With Nirmal Puwar's 'Space Invaders', Ahmed shows how non-white bodies in places oriented for white bodies makes them feel "out of place" (Ibid, 133). She says that these bodies are disoriented by the society and people around them: "people blink and then look again" (Ibid, 135). For her this disorientation is a queer slanting of space, disorientations of bodies and that of bodies into objects. Ahmed poses disorientation[^c5] as the point of failure, in which a body is placed into a form with which they do not fit, where they are objectified, and their needs are held out of reach.

When we "feel out of place" and disorientation is the norm, Ahmed poses the movement of being in retreat, of moving away from, whilst facing. In this retreat, she says, there is queer joy as we look back at a past fading, into a future which can enable "the condition of possibility for another way of dwelling in the world" (Ibid, 178). In feeling out of place at, disoriented by and in retreat from institutional tables this research(er) asks what it means to move within reach of another way of dwelling at these tables of computation, collaboration and institution, and specifically one that cares for and affirms crip and queer lives, experiences and knowledges.

### Sedimentation

Ahmed extends the bodily horizon to time, thinking of how repetitions, sedimentations and tendencies shape bodies. She makes an analogy here with a lump on her finger from where she grips her pen, where her finger has built up and sedimented its form in relation to the pen. Ahmed sums it up simply as "what we ''do do'' affects what we ''can do.''" (Ibid, 59). She refuses the hegemonic causality of a focus on doingas a singular straight direction. Instead, she suggests orientation is an expanding of a certain direction, that may relationally restrict others, but is not determinative. Her definition makes it possible for orientations and their sedimentations to not be singular in focus, and to enable us to navigate and approach complex relations on our horizons and to take queer paths between them. When this approach arrives at the regressive mono-logics of institutional efficiencies, it opens us up to many other paths and directions.

Ahmed also discusses RSI as a potential effect of inheritance, sedimentation, time, repetition, and the table. RSI is the strain and pain caused from bodies repetitively conforming to a tables that does not care for them and determines them to be disabled before they begin. Here, bent over, hunched and aching as we work, in this cramped spot, is the perfect time to stretch out into Ahmed's queering of orientation. With RSI, we overtly feel how our bodies want to be orientated[^c6], but we are also contorted by our systems, infrastructures and relations, through the tables that orientate us towards an ideology of efficient work. Through a queer orientation, Ahmed prompts us to listen to our bodies, our aches and our axes, to feel what we tend towards or need to retreat from.

We can question these relations of RSI through Ahmed's concept of inheritance[^c7], thinking through not only where these projections of contorted bodies and relations have come from, but also what they perpetuate. What are the horizons of these inherited relations, and what is reachable from these positions? When the straight/atomic home is orientated so that there is a "requirement that we bring home the "other sex" ... ''same race"" (Ibid, 127), then it is orientated to be self-perpetuating, autopoetic, and demanding a "good likeness". This orientation of a home demands that everyone be "in line" and maintain the norms and order of things, making sure that the relations and hierarchies "line up" between generations. Ahmed gives an example of drawing on tracing paper, copying lines over, and the sophisticated apparatus that philosophers, researchers and institutional tables maintain to keep lines straight by "holding" things in place. These institutional apparatuses often smooth over any lumps, bumps, pains and aches that could queer the line and make it deviate. Ahmed empowers us when we are disoriented by these enforced, inherited and sedimented lines, as this disorientation is a generative position to re-orient towards other tables and practices to sediment new queer and crip lines of affinity.

### Queering the axis

To queer this sedimented straightening axis, Ahmed starts by tracing the etymology of "queer". Queer in a spatial context means a twist in space, and when we combine this with definitions of sexual orientation, it poses a bent, deviant or crooked sexuality. Ahmed starts to queer the straight line to open us up to thinking about how we approach things on our horizon. If we are to move straight towards an object, as a singular other from determinate positions, then we can only take a straight path towards it[^c8]. She demonstrates this at the dining table where one man sits opposite one woman. This emerges into the family table where we have set sides and positions. Ahmed shows how this line straightens out a queer or crooked one by pushing us to choose one side of the table. Ahmed questions how the queer line is portrayed as oblique when held against the straight line, even posing that the straight line needs the queer one against which to appear comparatively straight. Ahmed reorients this idea through her figure of the "contingent lesbian" (Ibid, 92), which queers Freud's notion of a "contingent introvert", who positions queerness as a lack of finding a partner of the other sex, and so turns to her own by default. Ahmed inverts this to position straightness as contingent, and sees lesbians not as defaulting to queerness in the lack of a suitable person of the other sex, but defaulting to straightness and the other sex when the familial line and sedimented straight norms put queer bodies out of reach. Here she is thinking about this not as a "coming out" as queer or lesbian but as "coming to" queerness through desire. This reorients these relations towards queer desire and away from the "requirement" of a straight line. This enables us to understand how we approach the world along our own crooked or deviant lines that take us towards different people, communities, relations and in doing so shape our bodies and sediment our own paths.

Key to this critique is a queer reading of Merleau-Ponty's "sensitive body"[^c9] where Ahmed thinks about how inhabiting space produces a space to be inhabited. For example, a soft bottom creates a softer seat, that creates a softer bottom and softer seat. This concept is used to think about how a queer twist in the straight line of inheritance is itself conducive to forming a line that has space and capacity to be twisted. To think this through, she takes up the butch-femme dynamic of lesbian relations, and critiques not only the hetero perception of needing sexual difference or an opposite to attract but also queer critiques like Joan Nestle's "phony heterosexual replicas" that mimic this. With the help of Judith Butler she poses that the real need here is to question the necessity for difference in queer attraction, of the "requirements" of desire and relations. Ahmed instead positions these roles as performances as "erotic possibilities that can generate new lines of desire only when they are just that: possibilities rather than requirements" (Ibid, 99). In doing this she is opening up the possibility for bodies to not be determined by set relations but to be things to be desired, pursued, subverted and felt out. In this move she plays on lesbian fictions of Butch-Butch relations within Leslie Feinberg's *Stone Butch Blues* as well as Lee Lynch's *The Swashbuckler*, to show the comical navigation of desire of self within lesbian culture. She turns here though to state that these performed lines and bodily horizons of butch-femme are not illegitimate, but cautions against drawing "a dividing line" that can in itself "make other forms of sexual desire unlivable"(Ibid, 99). In this research, I have been playing with these ideas around queer relations in the context of wider intimacies, from how roles are performed with digital network infrastructures, to the emerging of indeterminate coalitions and collective desires.

Ahmed takes Merleau-Ponty\'s notion of the "sensitive body" to discuss how this "coming to" queerness shapes and forms our bodies through being in relation with and touching other queer bodies. She explains how being oriented towards other women doesn't just shape our sexuality, but also what other objects are reachable on our horizon. She shows how queer and lesbian desires move us sideways, taking us to different associations and connections that are often invisible to others. As we follow our queer paths she encourages us to refuse this straightening up, to not look back or reorient ourselves to/around straight heckles, however offensive they are, and to instead orient towards our own queer promise. This queering of the axis is to stay disoriented, to orient into possibilities that straight lines could never map, and to touch and hold our bodies in our own economies. A queer axis is one where the horizontal and vertical lines of inheritance don't always "line up", can be "off line", and challenge the sedimentations that hold us in place, force us to one side and keep us out of reach of our needs and desires.

Removing the "holding" things in place, we can move the tracing paper to other tables and relations; we see the grooves in these different tables, inducing a queering that animates these sedimented lines to be drawn otherwise. This means that if we take a seat at institutional tables as crips and queers[^c10], even if it isn't orientated, approachable or stable to us, we are mutually affecting it. It means that when we bring ourselves, our thoughts and research to other queer tables, of coalition and of crip care, we can be comfy in our shared disorientation at hegemonic tables. The research we are doing gets slanted with our bodies to these other queerer axes. When we come to institutional tables along these queer axes, we take them off balance, grasping at them and nudging them to an orientation we need. This is a very queer dance that begins to happen when we refuse to be held in place, or hold other things out of place. We start to be able to stretch out, begin to feel our needs and to form tables and relations of affinity that feel mutual, constitutive and affective.

### Transdisciplinary practice

Moving from a queer axis this research sits at the intersections of a number of disciplines, so I find it important to reflect on Ahmed's thoughts around transdisciplinary practice. In queering the axis and the paths we take, we can think through what it means to not always know the path, to get lost and connect things that aren't together when they are held in place by sedimented norms. For Ahmed, potential naivety around the proper way of doing things is a place of production where queer lines are drawn and other paths are made. This means that there is great strength in holding to these institutional tables together, however much they may try to throw us off, or move apart. By being there, and by making wiggle room[^c11], wiggling tables together and apart, we create the spaces we need to move towards the queer lines and modes of orientation that we need. This space to breathe means that we have the capacity to touch, feel out and imagine what our needs are and what paths may make these possible. Where do we have to move to be in reach of these needs and desires? Through transdisciplinarity we have the agency to imagine and practice what combinations of lines, what muddling of methods and disassociation of discipline enables us the room to make the change we need. Much like Ahmed's navigation of butch-femme dynamics, transdisciplinarity is not meant to de-legitimise disciplinary fields or sedimented relations, but is meant to approach them as performances of knowledge and practices. Orienting disciplines in this way means that we can start to make space for what was once "unlivable" in disciplines' inherited terms. Again, this approach in its disobedience doesn't outright discredit the disciplines it works with but asks how their performed orientations may cross, what that could put in reach, and how making disciplines touch in other ways reshapes the bodily horizons of the disciplines themselves. This moves the focus from boundaries to orientations and how we can trace situated queer paths between disciplinary lines for ourselves. In this research, I bring together and move across fields of queer feminism, crip theory, disability justice, STS, media studies, information studies, artistic/creative practice, and software studies, to ask how a crip network practice can be made live-able between the institutions of computing and academia that systematically invalidate disabled queer lives.

