## The Crip Table


Here I turn to the crip table, and in doing so aim to extend Ahmed's understanding of what is in reach with contemporary crip theory. Ahmed is in many ways an amazing commentator on disability and anti-ableism, but here I turn to Alison Kafer's table, and to her work within *Feminist, Queer, Crip*. Kafer's formation of the Political/Relational model of disability, and discussion on Crip Time as a concept enables me to question through more focused crip lens how "bodies take shape through tending toward objects that are reachable" (Ahmed, 2006). In doing so I am thinking through how politics and relations form and hold disability in place, and in turn how through community, interdependence and collective access in action we can manifest and enable disability's indeterminacy to manifest many other futures together. I also inquire into Kafer's figuring of crip time not only as a way to hold many indeterminate bodies, but also as a way to understand and navigate the scoping of actions taken in this research. I reflect on the many scales that collaborative labours take, especially around manifesting and sedimenting infrastructures, from infinite small meetings and feelings that we could never capture, to scales of maintenance that could have ended yesterday, or could stretch beyond our lifetimes. With this, I also slip onto Kafer's table the *Crip Technoscience Manifesto* (2019) by Aimi Hamraie and Kelly Fritsch, to re-orient these dialogues towards social and technical infrastructures and science technology studies (STS). Here I orient the crip as a social and technical hacker, reforming and manifesting infrastructures through direct action, affective feedback and refusal that center crip knowledge and experience within making and doing. With this I ask what does it take for crips to make and sit cozily at tables of disability justice, access and life affirmation within and around institutions of research, computation and care? I want to approach these questions with others, with energy, excitement and joy, asking: where can we start to imagine and practise other political relations of liberation and affirmation, now?!

### Political/Relational Model

Alison Kafer's *Feminist, Queer, Crip* is a foundational work for understanding how disability can be analysed from a crip perspective and approach. It looks to complicate the way that disability is represented and mediated, moving on from both the medical model and social model of disability, to one that can hold the diversity of intersections queer and disabled bodies experience as well as critique the wider implications of a cure narrative. In the medical model of disability, as Kafer notes, quoting Simi Linton, "the proper approach to disability is to "'treat' the condition and the person with the condition rather than 'treating' the social processes and policies that constrict disabled people's lives."" (2013, 5). The medical model treats the sickness or "abnormality" of disabled people on an individual basis and in doing so ignores and invalidates the background to their potentially disabling social relation. In doing this the medical model also ignores the experiences of disabled people whose bodies are not only most affected by these orientations, but also have the affective and situated knowledges that are essential to enabling their nuanced affirming care. The medical model sees that "solving the problem of disability, then, means correcting, normalising, or eliminating the pathological individual" (Ibid, 5). A cure here can mean returning to being "able bodied" but it can also be interpreted as society being cured of disabled bodies. This medical model draws a line that forces disabled people to one side, and off of the table systematically through isolating them from it financially (Ibid, 39), as well as through eugenic regimes of genetic selection (Ibid, 76) and curing ideologies of technological enhancement (Ibid, 107).

A later and more accepted model within the disabled community is the social model, which aims to draw attention to the social aspects and the background of disability that the medical model invalidates. It does this through an 'impairment/disability' axis, which helps with understanding what a person is capable of and how a society/system can limit their abilities relationally. The social model defines impairment as "any physical or mental limitation" (Ibid, 7) and argues that "disability signals the social exclusions based on, and social meanings attributed to, that impairment" (Ibid, 7). Kafer sums it up simply: "impairments aren't disabling, social and architectural barriers are" (Ibid, 7). This is in many ways generative for re-approaching disability's "problems", moving them from the individual to societal, infrastructural and political scales.

With Susan Wendell, Kafer queries the social model by asking, "how far one must be able to walk to be considered able-bodied" (Ibid, 7). While seemingly simple, this question opens many political and relational queries. What are the geographies (are there smooth walkways on flat-ish land?), economics (could they afford the walking aid or pain relief tablets?) community relations (was their friend free and able to help, or community carer available?), politics (are their medications legal?) and infrastructures (were they able to connect to a community, was an input valid on a form?). These questions move the approach away from a standardised test on an individual, and into understanding the nuances of disabling political dynamics on people's abilities, relationally and societally . Wendell and Kafer consider both impairment and disability to be socially constructed, as bodies are only seen as disabled in relation to sedimented "able" ones. Returning to Ahmed, we could ask how Crips line up to the determinate straight able-bodied line? And Crips would probably respond, "huh? what axis?", or, maybe on another day, feeling more provocative, "We don't have to!"

Kafer also notes that the social model, when taken to an extreme, inverts the orientation of the medical model, and in doing so can invalidate people with disabilities acknowledging their pain and other impairments or their desire for a cure to them, as they play into the medical narrative of a cure they are trying to counter. In this inversion it can also overlook the fact that some disabilities, such as chronic health, pain and fatigue, will not change no matter how much we change social relations. Along this thread the social model also negates to think about how a cure narrative towards a particular (abled) kind of body can affect people who might not identify as disabled or be "impaired". Kafer gives the examples of anti-ageing creams that can play on the anxieties of getting old as well as growth hormones for shorter children to make them "normal" height. Both can be seen as ableist and reliant on a curative model. From this orientation, we can understand how the social model orients disability to be delineated along fine lines, and in many ways undermines the radical knowledges of disabled experiences and the relations they put in reach.

Kafer proposes the political/relational model to reorient the social model's impairment/disability axis. Kafer's model asks what immediate changes to relations not only validate, but also ease and enable the abilities of people living with experiences of disability, neurodiversity, chronic illness and pain "under any circumstances" (Ibid, 41), which I discuss further in the next section on Crip Time & Crip Futures.

In action, navigating disability through these models can be quite sad, as we understand how overwhelming these social and institutional politics and pressures are on our crip bodyminds, and how violent, forceful and invalidating they are in action. However, by being able to navigate and analyse these institutional tables and their bodily horizons from a crip orientation, we are able to set out our own paths to move around the sinkholes and vacuums they hold in place to erase our lives, experiences and voices from the discourse about disabled people and our place in the future. In this research this takes the form of questioning how we collectively organise around and with technology, away from curative narratives of efficiency and control within these institutional politics, and instead towards collective care, maintenance and access towards our own social and technical infrastructures.

### Crip Time & Crip Futures - might restructure / add more refs on crip time?

> "Can we tell crip tales, crip time tales, with multiple befores and afters, proliferating befores and afters, all making more crip presents possible?" (Kafer 2021, 418)

One of the focuses of Kafer's *Feminist, Queer, Crip* and her wider research is the figuring out of crip time. Crip time is manifested by many different people in crip theory, from Ellen Samuel's *Six Ways of Looking at Crip Time* (2017), to Margaret Price's *Mad at School* (2011, p. 62) which offers generative affective definitions, to Kafer's *After Crip, Crip Afters* (2021) and David P. Terry's *Explanation not Excuse* (2016) that poetically describe crip times. *Prioritizing Crip Futures* (Abrams et al., 2024) and Sins Invalid's *Crip Kinship* of Sins Invalid (Kafai, 2021, p. 75) show crip time in action in institutional and crip collective contexts Crip time enables a paradoxical and non-linear temporality that aims to sit with disabled people's bodies and experiences on their terms instead of enforcing a normative able-bodied orientation of time[^c12]. In essence, crip time is the refusal of determinate, straight, evenly-paced timelies. I choose to build from Kafer's definitions because of her emphasis on the systemic and political relations of temporalities that freeze and hold crips and disabled folks in place, as well as the ways we can hack and form wiggle room around these dominant hegemonic times. Kafer builds up her definition through a few moves but starts by cripping Lee Edelman's queer time against the future (Kafer 2013, 28). Here she takes up the figure of the 'Child' as a symbol of the future that in queer theory is often also a symbol of the deterministic straight line of inheritance towards able straight futures[^c13]. The figure of the Child is also heavily bound to the histories of eugenics, which conflated disabled, racialised, poor and indigenous bodies into the categories "feeble-minded" or "defective", used to justify forced sterilisation or euthanasia for the future of the "race" (Ibid, 30). The legacies of these eugenic logics persist in contemporary prenatal selection and abortion of disabled children to "solve" the problem before it starts, and which the UK has re-enitiated this year (Maia Davies 2025). It also enables the endless deferral of care for disabled folks, that instead of cares for them now orients funding to cure society and futures of their disabled bodies. One example Kafer takes up is of Noam Ostrander's interviews with young black men in Chicago with violently acquired spinal cord injuries (Ibid, 33). She highlights this case as it not only shows how the violent relations through which these men became disabled are so sedimented that their disabling was treated as inevitable, but also that becoming disabled was a foreclosure on their life, one that determined them to have no future. Here showing how disability is imagined by ableism to have no future, and that to authoritarian eugenics logics, reinforced through race, class, sexuality, gender identity and more, determine disability as a category to forcibly place bodies that they do not want to see in the future.

In her book Kafer engages with the figure of the "Child" to reorient dialogues around disabled futures and different peoples abilities to procreate more disabled bodies. As well as children Kafer is also exploring the capacities disabled people have to procreate culture and other social relations and intimacies. By doing so, she questions the hegemonic terms through which disability's futures are represented. She elaborates on this by studying both mainstream media narratives playing out these political imaginaries and contemporary social and technical infrastructures that enforce these politics systemically.

For example, Kafer reads Marge Piercy's *Woman on the Edge of Time*, and its legacy within feminist studies as a text that demonstrates "inclusivity" and political democracy within science (Ibid, 72). Through a crip lens, Kafer's analysis shows it is anything but inclusive or democratic. This Utopian world has in fact eradicated all disabled people without any mentionor dialogue that included them. The fictive society is in many ways Utopian because it has eradicated disabled people through genetic science and technological advancement. The fictive infrastructure that has enabled this is called the brooder, which mixes and selects genes to form neutral healthy children of all races, but in doing so eradicates disabled bodies without question. In the same move it also blends and displaces race as a way to cure us of cultural difference and racial inequality. When held in comparison to the depicted Dystopia, which is filled with disabled and mad bodyminds, we see how disabled people's existence here represents one of the main signifies of this utopian/dystopian split. Beyond the macro of this split, the only mention of disability in the utopia is of people taking mental health breaks, where they drop out from society. This in many ways still enacts the erasure of disability from society, put to one side, siloed and hidden from sight until normal or cured. Through Kafer's analysis we see how neither the utopian nor dystopian futures enable or imagine disabled people to live full lives, or affirm their experiences. In these futures disabled people are either the abundant problem or are silently cured from existence as part of the solution. In these narratives, disabled bodies, feelings and experiences are not included in the making of futures. In utopia, they have been invalidated and backgrounded at every step towards this "greater good".

In response we have seen how Kafer constructs a crip time that is able to hold the affective, embodied and experiential relations to time that disabled bodies are able to feel. This affective crip relation to time emerges through disabling relations to institutions, or just how disabled bodyminds queerly move through and experience time and space[^c14]. Kafer presents many forms of crip time, from the slowing down and indefinite postponing of care, to the immediacy of when we need to care right now. Crip time takes the form of cycles of time that complicate the normative straight cycles of the able-bodied clock, and disables people from accessing in-flexible institutions, financial stability and self-determinacy.

Kafer aligns crip time with Jack Halberstam's discussion of queer time, in particular the "strange temporalities, imaginative life schedules, and eccentric economic practices" of queer life (Ibid, 35). For Halberstam,the immediacy of the AIDS crisis, specifically for gay men and their communities took them out of mainstream and normative time, to a time of "the here, the present, the now" (Ibid, 35). In crip contexts, Kafer describes a "falling time". Falling ill or getting a prognosis changes perceptions of time, shrinks futures and intensifies the present. When falling into depression, time is slowed to a stop, yet can fly by. How does time feel when there are uncertainties as to whether a chemical, food or unpredictable trigger could induce symptoms that will take you out of time? These fallings into "strange temporalities" leaves space for disabled people to feel these times as they are and not line-up to a straight and normative time, validating and enabling crip bodies to tell stories that can change how we think with time.

For "imaginative life schedules" Kafer brings to the forefront the ways that disabled people have to pre-plan and hack systems of care to be in reach of their needs. How partners and friends need to split carers and medicines, as systems have valued one over the other. How families and friends need to fill the gaps. How bathroom visits have to be pre-planned and scheduled. Kafer poses these "imaginative life schedules" not just as the extenuated day to day planning that most disabled people take on, but as the need to project crip bodies into the future to maintain them. This maintenance is highlighted not just as (re)production that we see within efficiency models, but as pleasurable acts of each day, and towards unknown practices of radical access. These schedules then become a place with a possibility of joy for organising and maintaining embodied futures for disabled lives that resist the violence of institutional and hegemonic determination of disabled futures.

With "eccentric economic practices" Kafer talks about the ways that crip people are hackers and economic re-imaginers. When the lines of systemic and institutional care don't hold you and you start to slip through. When they limit how much you can earn to maintain your care subsidies and determine you into a certain level of (dis)comfort. This is when these eccentric economics are necessitated and practised, to trade goods, favours and pleasures under the radar so that crips don't compromise our basic care. These economics for Kafer enable a blurring of the public/private in a way that enables these economics to be a test bed for us to imagine what politics might be capable of. This is where our everyday practices of collective access and interdependence become radical methods for rethinking the politics of how we come together.

Kafer's situates crip time between a time of falling in the here and now, meanwhile maintaining our bodies to enact a future with us in it by practising politics of our everyday. Kafer goes on to examine how this framing of crip time lines up against narratives of longevity, focusing on cripping Halberstam's notion of keeping going "under any circumstances"[^c15]. In a queer refusal of longevity, hegemony is seen to reproduce deterministic futures indefinitely. A crip position sits with each body differently. Kafer asks what it means for that or this body to keep going "under any circumstance"[^c16], and how can we ease the institutional and social pressures that curtail crip life at every turn. Here she is asking us to also step out and inquire, "what are the circumstances we need but also desire?", and by asking this, we can also ask how we can orient them to be in reach.

To make time for crip time, where we feel our crip bodies maintained in a future that holds them is to radically reconfigure our relations to almost every part of our lives under efficient time. To embody a future with us in it is to practice access as affirmation and to enable people the space and time to consent, to be fully present in and able to care for that time. A future embodied by crips would mean fostering time from a new set of roots that can overlay, intertwine and embrace multiple times. This radical embrace of crip time enables this space within relations, futures and immediate actions that make time for us to hold this crip stuff with care "under any circumstances".

To tie down and bring in-line the proliferating befores and afters of indeterminate crip time tales, as I have had to for this thesis, I have thought about how to find orientation within space and time that shifts, trickles and lets loose without reason. To sit in disorientation is to be crip, and to be crip is to be more than aslant from the straight axis of time. But with a crip disorientation as an axis, one that changes with bodies in relation, and holds more or less than the x,y,z of things, we can start to trace the paths of crip time tales to future horizons abundant with crips. In this research it has meant to hold slow[^c17] to this crip clock, and find coalitions and collaborations where I can start to flex the normative and enable wiggle room for the "strange", "imaginative" and "eccentric" crip practices that can generate futures for us to inhabit.

### Crip intersectionality & Coalition

The Crip relation to intersectionality is one of the most radical approaches to the term, as it is so abundant and overflowing. This is due to the variety of bodies, experiences and struggles that exist under the broad terms of disability. Of course we can turn to Kimberly Crenshaw's definition of intersectionality(Crenshaw 1991; 2015), and it's emergence form groups like the Combahee River Collective, where "interlocking oppressions" form at the cross roads of identities. This in many ways comes from and speaks to disability (even if it is not overtly stated), but I find it more interesting to look at definitions that come from the overt practices of crip studies. This Crip kinship (2021) as Shayda Kafai would term it, is where the abundance of crip communities and interdependence of intersections shine. Kafai's book centres on the practices of Sins Invalid, a crip performance group started by Patty Berne and Leroy Moore. Sins Invalid's work centres expressing crip pleasures, joy and desire without shame and through interdependence. The group's definition of intersectionality is one that I hold dear in my research and repeatedly reflect on in my practice.

> "Sins Invalid defines intersectionality this way: "Simply put, this principle says that we are many things, and they all impact us. We are not only disabled, we are also each coming from a specific experience of race, class, sexuality, age, religious background, geographic location, immigration status, and more. Depending on context, we all have areas where we experience privilege, as well as areas of oppression... We gratefully embrace the nuance that this principle brings to our lived experiences, and the ways it shapes the perspectives we offer.\"\" (Ibid, 31)

This definition of intersectionality by Sins Invalid has helped me to think through how we can come together to practice crip freedoms together. To treat these intersections with care and situate our abilities, privileges and desires into and out of alignment, and within our capacities. Kafer also notes Robert McRuer's notion of "the non-disabled claim to be crip" (2013, p. 169), which I follow: the possibility of able bodied crips, of those working for the disabled cause, but also maybe those that recognise the "the disability to come." Committing to this wider scope of intersectional disability justice is a key step for any crip studies critique, as accessibly explained in Ella Parry-Davies' *Coming out Crip* (2022) audio piece. She, much like myself, is only "stable" because we live in the UK with a state health system that recognises our needs, and can "treat" them in its scope. If we were to live elsewhere, have different nationalities and the relational support those bodies have, we might not even be here, or able to make these statements. With this we embed ourselves within the mutual cause against all intersecting injustices towards disability

In this dialogue privilege and oppression are situated and negotiated by both approached with intimacy. With this I have asked how can I as a white crip researcher, within academic institutions that are often inaccessible to other intersections of disabled people, use my privilege and oppression in this experience and context to leverage resources and change discourses to position disability justice and radical access as the next action we take at every turn? It also asks me to know that I will never know the experiences of other people with disability and to have patience, to listen and learn to communicate my own sense making. It is to take our sweet crip ass time to get a feel for one another, and affirm each other along that path and journey.

I find it important to think through intersectionality with Kafer's reading of Ashley-X's story. This is because it clearly displays the ways we have to defy the urge to divide disability through its diversity, but to instead center and care for these bodies on the margins of our discourse. Ashley is born with "static encephalopathy", that leads her doctors to state that "her development never progressed beyond that of an infant", and means that she depends on constant care for her lifetime. The nickname by carers for the condition and similar disabilities is a "pillow angel". Another element of this relation is that her body developed at a "normal" pace, and at age 6 her parents started to be concerned about what puberty would do to her. From consultations with medical professionals they set up a plan to remove Ashley's uterus and breast buds, as well as put here on a high dose oestrogen regime. The medical professionals in dialogue with the parents validated this treatment for many reasons, from "saving" Ashley from pains of menopause and puberty, as well as keeping her small so her parents could care and protect her directly, as well as keeping her safe from her own mature body. This meant that the way Ashley and her body were unconsensually treated was to be shaped for the able bodied world around them. They just made her easy to handle as well as protected from relations held in place by ableist and violent sexist politics. I work with Kafer's reading of Ashley for a few reasons, partially as it highlights the ways disabled bodies and experiences are curtailed to fit ableist scales and needs, instead of considering the disabled bodymind's own needs and desires. It also shows the length that these sorts of ableist actions can be taken to, how far an individual who cannot oppose can be shaped to fit the efficient line, instead of questioning the political relations of the line itself. By questioning how we orient ourselves towards this line, either towards forcing an individual body to fit in, or towards asking what this body is capable of through interdependence, communication and care, Kafer opens up what intersectionality means for crips.

This is highlighted by some mixed views from both medicine and disability studies, whether a person like Ashley-X is too disabled to be disabled, and whether people like them need their own category (Kafer 2013, 67). This division provokes yet another boundary beyond the able/disabled projected axis, forming again new complex parameters that permit questionably dehumanising and violent treatments, such as the one Ashley-X recieved. Kafer asks here what if we place people like Ashley-X not outside of disability discourse, but in the centre of it? When we start to imagine relations and tables to care for these experiences and not determine and invalidate their communication ability, we open ourselves up to feel and be felt through many yet unknowable ways. Kafer's enactment of crip theory here also centres the joy of this communication. In Ashley-X's case, a double mastectomy and hormone blockers to stop her breasts growing means that Ashley was also disabled from having any pleasure from these removed organs. Their pleasure was never imagined, nor valued in their future, only their pain. That just because we are not yet able to feel their expressions of joy, imagine their bodily possibilities of pleasure and agency, or even contemplate their political desires means that it us who invalidated them without question from the dialogues of their daily life and future. Instead, the dialogue around Ashley's body focuses on pain or discomfort and keeping her secure from strangers, who may also feel this discomfort around her. Reflecting on Ashley-X through crip intersectionality, it can also be understood that this probably only happened to her as she came from a middle class American family that could afford to treat her through the medical industrial institutions. When I scope out of her context, I imagine how to be in dialogue with each other in such a diverse field that includes so many bodyminds and situated social/political relations. Again a crip move is to centre joy and pleasure as an actionable site for us to move from, but this is not to say we silence or ignore the very real pain that exists everyday within our community. It instead aims to move beyond deterministic narratives of disability as painful and awkward and asking what brings us joy, comfort and pleasure. Through feeling out these restraints we can interdependently ask how to put our desires in reach together?

This is where the interdependence of crips also sits as an essential practice. When we all struggle to perform as required and to be valued as able-bodied people, we have to help each other manage the gaps. Like we saw in Crip Time & Crip Futures with Kafer's take on Halberstam's "strange temporalities, imaginative life schedules, and eccentric economic practices", all of these crip times are threaded through community schedules, care and interdependence. These acts can range from just consolidating to each other that it is fine that we are sad and mad, that there are gaps in what we are able to do, and being there when we almost fall through them.

In the third episode of the Crip Club podcast[^c18] , which discusses disabled representation in films and media, Clare Baines interviews Jessi Gutch around cancer portrayals (Baines, o. J.). In the podcast they not only talk around what it means for Gutch to not fit into the curative narrative of cancer, but she also shares her experiences of living with a disability whilst working in the film industry. The section I felt was most informative for understandings of intersectionality and interdependence of disabled folk here is when she is talking about working in a majority disabled set, which informed a a different set of expectations and capacities for one another. Gutch says that this formed a space where people could express their needs easily and have them affirmed, where everyone on set knew that this film was important, but not the most important thing. The most important thing is that everyone in this collaboration was feeling as good as they could in their bodyminds and able to do what they wanted to within the collaboration. It was where if they needed more time for this crip stuff they could have it without question.

In my practice as I have started to collaborate with more disabled and crip people I have also felt this same energy, where our wellbeing, capacities and feelings are prioritised over an imagined deterministic outcome or performance of work. I talk more about this in The Crip Table section, but to touch on one of these collaborations that is of note here was in the creation of the crip infrastructure en-crip-ing time[^c19], a work that imagines and instigates crip times within computational time. One major part of the work was to focus on this type of crip relating between my collaborator Mariana Marangoni and I in the making of the infrastructure, which meant that there were no agile time-lines, roles or outcomes here, just crip times, flexibility and compassion. We both had many demands from life, and very crip times in relation to our bodyminds, but we both understood that for this intersection and crip infrastructure to work we both needed these times to prioritise ourselves. When one of us had to freeze time to recover or get through something it was okay, we just said, and adjusted the timeline or responsibilities. When one got stressed and anxious about the imposed time-lines, the other didn't combat this, but comforted it. The expectations would be reoriented to fit our current abilities, and frictions became places to learn each other's needs. This social politics, ways of relating and maintaining crip infrastructure became important to show in the work. To make it present in the background of the work we added comment sections in the html of the poem, showing our conversations of making time and space for this crip stuff.

In Kafer'sfinal chapter, 'Accessible Futures, Future Coalitions', she gives an example of Silvia Yee's work with the Disability rights education and Defense Fund (DreDF) (2013, p. 160). Kafer highlights their work with communities facing the overburden of toxic industries and emissions to show how policy and access put in place to help disabled people in many ways benefits everyone. In the case of DreDF the rights of children with respiratory issues can stop schools and institutions from using potentially harmful chemical pesticides, which can benefit not only the quality of life of everyone in that district but also reduces the ecological impacts. This presents Crip intersectionality as a powerful place where in coalition we can leverage our communities access privileges to not only improve their individual lives but to put a future we all want into reach.

If we bring this radical crip intersectionality into alignment with practising in communicating and forming dialogues of pleasurable crip interdependence, I see possibility for us to find joy in how we feel and care with and for each other and through our shared sociotechnical relations. Here I return again and again to imagine where we can find joy in rubbing up against each other's supports and restraints in relation, and how this practice is a language we all have to practise, one of sensing what each other's abilities, privileges, capacities, desires and feelings are, and learning to understand them as they unfold. In a crip intersectionality we have to in many ways turn to this movement of coalition in action, of bringing together divergent bodies and movements to manifest the change we need now. Crip coalitions in themselves are temporary comings together of differing politics, structures, goals and needs to configure the social and technical infrastructure for change and affirmation we need now. In Ren Britton's Coalition Bouquet[^c20], they trace many of these histories and the improvised technologies, politics and communities that came together to blossom crip change together. Here these often complex, divergent and temporary coalitions can move beyond the predetermining confines of pain, which they may be, to where we reorient the problems of access and intersection as holding the possibility of joyous direct action and change.

In this research, this has looked like working between different departments, institutions, collective, projects, coalitions, mailing lists, servers and etherpads. Most importantly though, for me as a person with fatigue, chronic pain and other complicating factors, this has meant pushing for accessible ways of managing and maintaining collective practices, and trying to introduce a disorienting crip axis to (dis)align with. This inquiry has been about intersectionally and interdependently reorienting practices, timelines, expectations and priorities. In particular, thinking through how my own role in these dynamics can support crip politics, both in the organisation of and accessibility of collaborations, and in response to broader questions of interdependence and the networks, infrastructures, and politics collaborations uphold and are held in place by. This research asks what it means to collectively retreat and refuse certain oppressive politics and relations of tech, to instead move towards other intersectional care-full and life affirming infrastructures, politics and coalitions

### Cripping Technology

In *Feminist, Queer, Crip*, Kafer approaches technology by bringing the cyborg into alignment with disability in two places. Firstly, she questions how media represents disabled dependence on technology as real-life cyborgs, leading to the "rise of the cyborg" as the unquestionable and naturalised cure for disabled folks. Secondly, she moves towards a crip critique of Donna Haraway's *Cyborg Manifesto*, away from naturalised cyborg\~crip relations and towards practising relations that challenge the militarised imaginaries of cyborgs through a disorienting and disobedient crip approach. This refusal, not of these technologies, but of how their imaginaries are oriented, politicised and enacted, is key to this disobedient crip research.

Kafer's media analysis of cyborgs shows that they are again sedimented without question to be a cure for impairment, to make 'normal' disabled bodies. These narratives, as we see with Kafer's analyses of Chris Hables Gray's *Cyborg Citizen*, lead to Gray, an able-bodied science studies scholar, taking up the late *Superman* actor Christopher Reeve, without his knowledge or consent, as a heroic cyborg leading the way for the disabled community. Gray suggests that the "crippling of superman" and Reeve becoming dependent on multiple machines and devices is one of the best examples of a "true" cyborg. Gray states that Reeve is a hero as he leads the way for other disabled bodies to be cured through technology. Gray's text in many ways undermines the disabled experience, as it doesn't enable Reeve or other disabled and more specifically quadriplegic people to talk about the use of and relation to access and assisted living technologies. Kafer also points out that Gray overlooks and cannot imagine that there is a wider disabled community than just the celebrity in focus, Reeve, or that these communities have a long history and culture of living with assistive technologies that might be informative. Kafer also shows his use of language often refers to people with disabilities as "invalids" or "patients", conflating their whole identity and personhood with the injury or medical identification of their condition. Sitting here, Kafer is showing Gray as a prime example of what the deployment of disabled bodies in cyborg theory looks like. In one of many other examples, Annie Potts' "taxonomy of cyborgs" places Reeves in a list with fictional cyborgs, orienting him as less human and more cyborg, a construction rather than a complex, multifaceted person. In these cyborg curing narratives, Kafer shows how this signalling of disabled people as the truest cyborgs locks in and has sedimented the path so much that a cyborg itself becomes a signal for disability, abnormality and difference. The cyborg\~crip, the crip\~cyborg.

By contrast, Kafer reads Haraway's figure of a "cyborg" in the *Cyborg Manifesto* (2006) as problematic in some aspects, but an empowering multiplicity to think through using a feminist STS lens. The problematic notions of the cyborg are somewhat well known; for example, in homogenising experiences and taking an imperializing approach that dictates one figure of an identity for whole groups of people (Kafer 2013, 114). Kafer, however, offers a closer crip critique of Haraway's cyborg, tracing how she also has fallen into the sedimented route that portrays disabled bodies, or as she determines them "paraplegics and other severely handicapped people", to be exemplary or true cyborgs. In this move, Haraway makes a number of questionable choices. She addresses these imagined people with disabilities in terms of "handicap" and describes them as "paraplegic", which reinforces the individualism and diagnosis of the medical model. Kafer also points out this critique of naming languages was fairly common discourse within that era of disability studies, of which Haraway was likely aware. Haraway also homogenizes experiences of disabled people like she does for other identities, but in doing so displaces the affective relations to technologies these different disabled positions and experiences enable. She essentially does not include any affective disabled perspectives on what it feels like to be disabled and (inter)dependent with and on technologies and their infrastructures.

Even though Haraway's "cyborg" is in many ways flawed, especially in relation to disability, Kafer still finds it to be generative from a crip position. In particular, the cyborg can also figure the defiant feminist care in and against flawed and often violent technoscience. The cyborg finds joy in acts of practising radical care otherwise. Kafer sees the cyborg as a fluid figure that can enable us to unlock, disorient and de/re-sediment paths between people with disabilities and the technologies that support them. She refigures the cyborg as a place of embodied crip futures, on their/our terms, validating and tracing a plurality of paths we take with technology together. It is this focus on how the cyborg enables crip studies to cross paths with other disciplines and experiences that is what makes this a generative space for her. Kafer gives examples of different cyborg intersections within disability studies, such as Dean Spade's research into the medicalisation of transgender identities. Spade navigates trans experiences of gender identity disorder (GID), which is used to validate care and medication, but also acts to reinforce the binary of gender as well as prolong and delay care (Kafer 2013, 124). GID also leads to tensions, with potentially ableist undertones and a medicalisation of queer identities, where needing to self-identify and be validated as having a "condition" or disorder to be treated as trans could lead to gender identity being read as an individual handicap instead of political and relational issue. We can also read this medicalisation of GID as reproducing the "curing" narrative, where specific treatments can resolve the individual "problem" of gender identity, and can be industrialised. Kafer works with Spade and others here to trouble these notions by stating "that neither medical technologies nor diagnoses can be characterized as purely oppressive or politically neutral" (Ibid, 125). This (dis)orientation approaches the individual within the relational, situated, and enables the cyborg body and their bodily horizons to be read as "maps of power and identity". In doing this, the cyborg also makes space for "affinity-through-difference"[^c21], where disabled people as a very diverse community can come together and lay with the disorientation of these many contradictory bodily maps and horizons. With this Kafer figures crip people to be cyborgsnot because of their bodily relations and dependence on assistive technology and technical infrastructure, that have been naturalised to signal disability, but because of the political practices we disobediently undertake. These acts of refusal are the tracings of our own queer and crip lines, the feeling and weaving of other crip techno bodies and relations. Some examples of this kind of rubbing up against and disobeying technology, whilst living with disability through it, can be seen in Laura Forlano's many works critiquing the cyborg as a concept. In both her *Hacking the Feminist Disabled Body* (2016) and *Living Intimately with Machines* (2023) she foregrounds the disabled experience of technology and relation to it as a place of generative friction, if oriented that way, that can enable other perspectives, methods and ethics. Kafer concludes her analysis by vulnerably opening up the idea that the cyborg within this plurality is also not the only figure for disability, as some disabled experiences may relate more and some less to these technological entanglements. However, she does suggest that attending to these sites where disability is visible within discourse, much like Haraway's intervention into cyborg theory, and my own into configuration theory later, is an intervention we can take up to retell crip stories and enable agency around the projected futures of our disabled bodies. In doing this in interdependence we can start to bring together these looser, flexible and situated figures of the cyborg, as crip hacking relations and disobedient politics that aim to fit technologies to our bodies more comfortably, and which tell and manifest other stories of futures that can hold crips not invalidate or un-imagine them.

#### Crip (Technoscience) Manifesto

Kafer follows up on *Feminist, Queer and Crip* (2013) with a talk called *Health Rebels: A Crip Manifesto for Social Justice* (2017). In this talk she covers many of the bases of her work that I have covered elsewhere, but through other informative anecdotes, experiences and relations through which to imagine this work. The focus in this talk is coalition, of cross-issue collaboration and working within difference together. In the talk Kafer appears to refigure her crip cyborg into a number of other figures, such as "health rebels", "the checklist", and "the manifesto". Health rebels play out somewhat similarly to the cyborg, as the defiant crips in the face of the medical industrial complex and institutional ableism. In coalition, living crip as method, multiple and indeterminate, forming frictions at our many intersection with these generalised and prescribed norms. Disobediently disoriented, aligning to the crip axes. The checklist represents the rubric, matrix or limited drop-down selection that indeterminate disabled bodies are (in)validated through. I discuss this further in the computational table section, where efficient logics determine static lines that are used to invalidate needs, experiences and care. Building on her earlier troubling of the crip cyborg as the only figure to live by, Kafer loosens and refigures the manifesto to be a place of wiggle room, of playing out our dreams, testing out futures, of finding gaps and frictions in these manifestings as generative places to write other crip manifestos and imagine other futures from. To do this she looks to queer theory, as we could easily to Ahmed, to think about how a manifesto (or an orientation) moves along a horizon, foreclosing and limiting some relations whilst putting some others in reach. For Kafer, quoting Audre Lorde, the manifesto is "believing, working for what has not yet been while living fully in the present now."[^c22] Here it acts as a place to live with uncertainty and practise actioning and inquiring into crip methods for indeterminate futures. In this research I ask alongside Kafer how, through a plurality of manifestos, can crip studies and disability justice take on struggles we may have never imagined before? And how can we try to imagine access for people and relations that have not been imagined or thought of at these institutional tables yet?

In this research, I find it helpful to move on from (but still with) Kafer's cyborg as manifesto and work with Aimi Hamraie and Kelly Fritsch's *Crip Technoscience Manifesto* (2019) to orient this work not only specifically towards technoscience but also to highlight crip manifesting and manifestos in practice. Their manifesto reiterates Kafer's work in a similar way to what I have discussed here, but situates it through more specifically STS relevant examples and positions. Key examples that are relevant to this work include ADAPT activist forming and shaping physical infrastructures by pouring ramps and smashing curbs, as well as Alice Wong's *Disability Visibility Project* forming social and media representation by and for disabled people. Both examples, and many other crip sociotechnical hackings, manifest forms of direct action, of making change and caring where institutions invalidate the political/relational forms through which they perpetuate ableism. Hamraie and Fritsch orient the *Crip Technoscience Manifesto* itself through commitments, forming a Manifesto through specific direct actions, protocols and relations. They do this to not only make the manifesto clear and accessible, but also to project into the future the embodied actions and relations that could enable crip discourses and practices to flourish in relation to technoscience.

I discuss these commitments below to highlight key orientations this work is building from.

> "Crip technoscience centres the work of disabled people as knowers and makers."

This positions the everyday practices and experiences of disabled people as that which enables them to best know their bodyminds and relations to technologies and society. They work with a few examples of crip designers to show how this plays out in action. Alice Loomer, for instance, shows us how wheelchair maintenance and hacking by the person using it, even though not a frictionless experience, forms relations with technology that are situated in relation to that body and its horizon. They quote Loomer saying, "I have equipment that fits me", suggesting how embodying technologies can be an enabling practice within crip technoscience . This is not to glorify the Do-It-Yourself practices of disabled people, as some may not be able (or want) to do "it", but it is to uplift the "world-dismantling and world-building labors" that "misfitting" in the world as a crip means and to orient from that disorientation.

> "Crip technoscience is committed to access as friction."

Friction for Hamraie and Fritsch represents the refusal to fit in of crip technoscience, of wanting more than the slots you are offered in the determined checklist, and taking actions and making frictions to enable this. They lay with the "non-compliant user", from Ray Lifchez and Barbara Winslow's book *Design for Independent Living* (1979), who use technology as a friction against an inaccessible environment to highlight the change needed[^c23]. They also discuss Collin Kennedy, an activist and cancer patient, who refused capitalist time around care by spraying expanding foam into hospital car park meters. In doing so, Kennedy disabled the ability to monitor and charge patients visiting the hospital, and so forming new possibilities and imaginaries of crip time through direct action forming friction. When thinking of frictions, I also want to return to the section on Crip intersectionality with Ashley-X, and think again about the possibility of curtailed joys and pleasures that can come from the frictions of our disabled lives. With crip technoscience this also means asking how direct actions, material transformations, practice of maintenance, the rubbing up of restrictions, and the frictions felt can be places of joy. How could Kennedy making crip time in a car park bring joy to not only him, but also to others who were visiting that day, and did not need to rush, or keep in-line or on time? These friction-enabling experiences of crips slips beyond institutional and capitalist time and offers glimpses of a future we can wiggle into. With "access as friction" we can embrace the struggles of making change where we need it, of getting in the way, and reorienting conversations and in doing so change the material world around us, possibly even with unknowable joy and pleasure.

> "Crip technoscience is committed to interdependence as political technology."

In the scoping of both feminist technoscience and the political/relational model of disability, how we work together around/for/with technology is itself a type of technology and method that we must focus on and practice. In crip technoscience and wider crip studies, there is a dedication to practising interdependence, through focusing on what our abilities build up to together.. What politics come from these places, what emerges from the ground up and can radically change the ways we imagine, embody and practice potential future politics now? One example Hamraie and Fritsch quote which resonates with this work is that of Mia Mingus's "access intimacy" (2017), which is hard to describe but easily felt. Access intimacy attends to how much someone 'gets' another's access needs, how much they make them feel comfortable around airing them, even if it's stating you don't know right now, and how willing they are to get to know you and your needs. Access intimacy as a concept enables us to imagine ways of relating to each other and how to be intimate with each other's access. To be open to the unknown and practice getting to know other's access needs.

> "Crip technoscience is committed to disability justice."

Manifesting crip technoscience that engages in disability rights goes beyond the assimilationist ideologies of mainstream accessibility to think about how through interconnected struggles, and finding justice in them, we can enable more radical practices for and with sociotechnical systems. When working for disability justice, we see crips refuse painful assistive technologies which only normalise their bodies to make others more comfortable. Disability justice also aligns this work with many intersections of disability studies to form a crip technoscience that is informed by and practices with working class, black, brown and indigenous disabled knowledges. It is one where we vouch for crip wholeness and life affirmation as places we can radically challenge the economics and politics of ableist powers that see us as broken or invalid. For this holding the impossible they turn to Eli Clare (2017), whose work suggests we can be broken and yet whole, imperfect, but valued, and holding a generative tension between the (not) opposites of these things.

Hamraie and Fritsch engage with the work of Sins Invalid and other crip artists and hackers to think through what Alice Sheppard (2019) calls "cultural-aesthetic technoscience". This is where they bring together new assemblages and aesthetics for communicating these complex relations of wholeness. Sins Invalid, for example,combineperformance, technological aids and films doused in unashamed crip joy and pride, not hiding, but embracing and putting on show the potentials for love, grief and playfulness in a very serious but joyous space. As these thinkers and artists show, joy and pleasure are not the only way to achieve disability justice as they can undermine the complex relations of disability globally, which work through oppression and debilitation as politics. Instead, engaging in and enabling this contradictory wholeness of disability justice is what makes a crip technoscience that can build from existing threads of resistance. It is where we can build from the non-innocent, from the disabling continuation/aftermath of war, petrochemical and medical industrial complex, working with these crip experiences, knowledges and practices to form other ways of caring for each other, our technologies and our world.

Crip manifestos are multiple in the ways that we can understand them coming together and into action. They can move from stating principles for their organisation or community, such as Sins Invalid's *10 Principles of Disability Justice*[^c24], Johana Hedva's *Access Rider* (2019) and Healing Justice London's *community agreements*[^c25]. They can also take up imagining infrastructural needs and transforming norms to a crip axis, which we can see with MELT's *Access Server*[^c26], Nat Decker and Cielo Suacedo's *Cripping Compute Graphics* (2023) as well as Carmen Papalia's *Pain Pals*[^c27] and many mentioned earlier in this section. They can also take the form of literary fabulations and manifestos, such as Kevin Gotkin's *Artists in Presidents* speech encouraging us to get cozy[^c28], Ren Britton and Helen Pritchard's call *For Careful Slugs: Caring for Unknowing in CS (Computer Science)* (2022) as well as Sophia Maier, V. Jo Hsu, Christina V Cedillo and M. Remi Yergeau's call for us to *Get the Frac In!* (2020). These crip forms of manifesting, of making principles and agreements, of forming and imagining infrastructures and spaces we need now, and of telling stories of futures and relations with us in and yet to unfold, are what this research orients from. It thinks through how we collectively can imagine and action these other sets of politics, protocols and ways of relating from the sites of impact, touch and friction, and feel out from these crip&queer disorientations and towards community led technology. In this movement I have taken up disobedient action research as my methodology, as the next chapter highlights. In this work, my research is performed across scales, from internally inner arcs of embodied change and practice to movement that aim to go beyond and dance with the institution's limits and norms.

