#### in-flex-ability

In questioning the horizon of these sedimented norms and the inflexibility we had felt both in the inherited configurations of technical docs as well as the social relations of how they were shared in practice, we wanted to make room to care for these frictions. To do this we coalesced these practices towards In-grid's own background and promise of collective access. The sub working group of In-grid members met many times together over on greenhost jitsi video calls as we often do to have collective dialogue. Together here we reflected on how we wanted to enact these practices, thinking about what structures and formats made room for this information to be understood and configured otherwise by us.

By making wiggle room within these constrained practices, we made room for them to be flexible towards our ways of working and politics. Here we were also keen to inquire how we could form wiggle room for others to disorient and configure out these docs otherwise for them selves. In this move we wanted to question the expertise and knowledge within these systems, moving it from the isolated and determinate super users to chaotic collective in practice. In this motion bring a plurality of bodies into contact with these infrastructure to make sense of them from many points of impact, friction and knowing. This approach aiming to not just disorient the compliant technical expert and designer but to make room for the figure of a disobedient user who brings with them their community and context.

