#### De/re-clouding

This was our first topic and led to us to talk around it for a while as we felt out this framing of analysis. This topic's scope focused on our long term retreat from the norms of hosting our bit with big tech cloud, to instead orient towards community run cloud. This movement started after we had joined the 8M communities mentioned in the background of the chapter. During this transition we have slowly moved from a scattering of big tech cloud services to a focused collaboration of our cloud and network infrastructures held with Servus.

Some of the inflexibility and frictions we felt when moving out of and retreating from the norms big tech network infrastructures were how as a product/service which is divided into user/designer relations, it meant that we felt defined to a specific role and body with no agency. To do this these big cloud infrastructures often put you out of reach of the matteriality of what you are using, and aim to keep the user experience, and the shaping of the user friction-less. To keep these infrastructures even more out of reach the sedimented norms and defaults of sysadmin and network maintenance is oriented as a burden, joyless and friction-full. It is also often only done by the isolated expert working alone or from a distance to configure technical relations for other users.

To form wiggle room here specifically we practised in-flex-ability through interdependence and collaboration. In this moving our scoping from needing to take on this immense burden that is out of reach of us, to instead ask what we have capacity do as In-grid, and what we can rely on others for. For instance, we as a group could not host our cloud infrastructures due to member capacity, experience and knowledges as well as a number of other reasons, so are working with Servus to host them. In this relation forming wiggle room around the frictionles user roles we were forced into by big tech and instead through the frictions of working with Servus, feeling out the flexability we want to orient towards and need. In the wiggle room we have here we can try to host our own VPN and distributed network, as well as a git code repository (we are working towards) and maybe some other similar simple services we want to experiment with. This orienting of scales and scope of interdependence and coalition enabling us to not only move off of the big tech cloud, but also towards putting these capacities in reach of ourselves and feeling and being intimate with the feedback from this. 

