#### Manifesting Femfester

Emerging out of this foreground and the workshop's wiggling of room in these technical protocols we turned our attention to the collective writing of our initial Manifesto for this server. To do this we talked as a group about how we wanted to orient our approach to this. To start this off In-grid members chatted about what the *Feminist Server Manifesto* (Constant, 2015) meant to them, and what they thought of it, with members being excited for us to take on iterating our own version as it had been an inspiration to many in the group. We decided that a collective reading of the original *Feminist Server Manifesto* would be a nice way to initiate this, and then follow it up by commenting on, iterating through and configuring out our own manifesting of it. In this reading we took turns to read lines in non-hierarchical and improvised form with members dynamically taking up where others left off, and echoing back to earlier collective reading practices and performances we have done[^r9].

We followed this up by doing another In-grid practice of synchronous free writing in a shared pad. This is a practice we have emerged that enables members to anonymously let ideas and thoughts out, making it a very relaxed way to start ideation and get a feel of what the group is making sense of. After this free writing we started to form alignments with the manifesto by writing out the original lines, talking through them and figuring out how "our lines" oriented from theirs. We only had time to go through half of them in the session, as people had time constraints, but here again we were in-flex-able. To do this we turned to an a-sync work flow working on the etherpad and online. Through this process of reorienting the manifesto and feeling out a few points where we flexed from their path. Here we re-oriented many of these issues through critiques and figures of access, asking how we as a group can imagine and materialise these approaches in our network practices. This ranged from caring for the frictions of accessing a server collectively, to making those difficulties visible and accessible to others. In this orientation we formed our own impact centred critical access informed dialogues and practices that disoriented "transparency". In-grid's central figure of reorientation of this emerged from our dedication to interdependence as a pivotal to our manifesting. The original *Feminist Server manifesto* does clearly come from community and a place of interdependence, but we wanted to emphasise interdependence as the figure that made room for In-grid's manifesting. In this move we also reoriented from not apologising for not being available (all the time), to learning to communicate our capacities and feel out and take care around our limits, both individual/collective. This for me also opens this manifesting to being a practice that changes over time, and one that aims to not only reveal but also build up our capacities and abilities within relation. We did in many places not wiggle from the original manifestos path though, finding alignment in the refusal of security, of exposing insecurities and avoiding ease-of-use. Again though we found it important to reaffirm these moves through abolitionist concepts and wordings. Over the next week or two we worked together asynchronously to edit and finesse together this manifesto, along with a short intro, for publication with Servus and the first edition of their *Artists running datacentres journal* (Davide Bevilacqua, 2024). Here it was engulfed in a further plurality of research, interviews and practitioner knowledges from across Servus' community. 

This manifesto aligns with the provocation of the original Feminist sever manifesto (ibid), as well as with this researches approach of flawed and crazed crip manifesting (Kafer, 2017, 2023). This is where in its essence the Femfester also yearns to be iterated through its misfitting in action, and frictions made and felt within complex systems and configurations of community infrastructures. This is our iteration and attempt to wriggle room in the infrastructural bounds we have rubbed up against, and with this manifesto we tried to imagine the room, practices and capacities for flexibility around In-grid's collective/individual bodies' needs to be present within our futures.

[^r9]: https://www.in-grid.io/projects/residency-event-maggie-roberts/
