#### Digital safe space protocols

This wriggle room for reflection was made when members uploaded their SSH keys to their user (carer/maintainer/character/collaborator/persona) account so that we could turned off password access. This meant that only a person on a device with that key and its password can access that user on that server, making it "secure". This is the standard or "norm" of security for a server with a public IP like this, and realistically does keep this space "safe" within the materialised military imaginaries of a zero trust encryted web that we exist in today (Spencer & Pizio, 2024). This relation became a place we found friction within these infrastructural inflexibilities that left In-grid asking what other imaginaries of safety and privacy could we imprint on our server from our background. Here I think influenced by the feminist server manifesto we talked a lot about transparency. We discussed how transparency even though performs the making visible of dynamics, is in many ways a barrier in place that is there to make a system "secure" from intervention. In this performance of transparency is also the filtering and orienting of these material practices and their background into the abstract languages and representative figures of experts. Instead we started to ask how we could make this relation more configure-able through and understanding of critical access as an alternative approach to transparency. This formed specifically of the desire to not "ring-fence around particular roles" or their knowledges, and the need to not have "knowledge lie with one person". With these statements refusing this figure of the expert user, and orienting to community and collective knowledges. To do this we thought about how safety for us is not about static barriers of security or hierarchical roles that reinforce each other, but to be intimate who we are with and what we are doing. From this discussion our safety comes then not from a checklist, charter or generalised deterministic set of conditions, but from taking time to build trust and making room for each other to form dialogues and exchanges in-flex-able ways. Within network practices this was particularly relevant, as we did not want each other to be intimidated (by the already intimidating technology), so forming relations of trust that centred access of these technologies was key. We came up with many protocols and practices for achieving this, from again working in pairs/groups, researching/checking/quadruple-checking before we took actions, and collectively demystifying and becoming experts on what these protocols and technologies are to us. 


