### In-reflection

In reflecting on our collective processes, our *Serv(er)ing In-grid* by *Practicing Protocols* to *Femfester* together our first server manifesto I aimed to offer up how configure-able methods can make room within relations for the flexibility our collective and communal bodies need within our sociotechnical infrastructures. This set of inquiries made room for In-grid (and I) to take configure-able methods up and to not only practice but also process our manifestation of our collective  infrastructures. Reflecting more closely on the outcomes of the workshop, I think it worked well as a method to wiggle room within these technical practices through critical access informed disobedient interventions. In-grid here taking our sweet time to form collective imaginaries through these direct actions. With these actions making room for our embodied situated knowledges as a group to orient how we want to configure these social and technical reltions of network infrastructure and collective organising. For me these inquiries into in-configure-ability have emerged as a place for In-grid to challenge the norms and sedimented relations of network infrastructures through making room for a wider relational and political orientation which retreats from the norms of automated security politics. To do this we instead turned to social practices of forming community trust, interdependence and care. Security politics were primarily troubled by us through notions of access as an axis that can feel out bounds and enable flex-ability within hard systems to build dialogues of trust and practices of interdependence. With this movement we aimed to move beyond the myths of transparency by interdependently building up our collective capacities of access, and to try to centre us all as experts of our collective systems, politics and limits.





## old
In reflection though, and clearly through the accounts I gave, I could have given better time allocation for these exercises, but it is also good to see the ways we can find flexibility in our interdependence to pivot our work within our limits. In recollection this may have been better split between two sessions, or longer over one day, but within the time constraints and limitation, it worked well to demonstrate the methods and process. In a similar vein I think I would have liked to have re-ordered the session, sandwiching the technical (con)figuring out practice in-between the manifesto(ing). I felt in this workshop the two elements, the material (con)figuring out and the collective manifestoing, were somewhat separate, and finding a approach to entangle them more would have been interesting.

