#### Inflexibility

Here I initiate this inquiry by examining the inflexibilities we found both within the social and technical aspects when making the docs for the Servpub infrastructure. When the sub working team of In-grid[^r2] initially tried to figure out the practices necessary for the Servpub infrastructure from other communities within the collaboration and the official docs of the VPN (TINC[^1s]), we found it inaccessible and full of barriers for a few reasons. We are a group of fairly technically capable people, and even though this was a new technical practice for us, it was hard to get to grips with what was going on at this table of network infrastructures. In reflection this was in many places due to the technical documentation and resources we were recommended, and which were quite abstract or incomplete. Beyond this the time/capacity In-grid had was very limited as it was mostly voluntary work at this stage and so it was a struggle to reach this dictated outcomes. The workshops and working sessions explaining the practice were also intensive and long sessions of terminal/console work, which often over ran, leaving everyone tired, discombobulated and unable to document or remember what had happened clearly. The formats of both felt fairly pre-configured and very rigid and did not make space for In-grid to have agency or input our background, approaches and ways of working around these sorts of frictions. Instead we were told "why can't we be like others", aka be quite and listen to/reproduce the "one best way" of feminist server practices.

Looking closer at the materiality of sysadmin as a technical process and practice it is quite specific in the ways it is made to be knowable. This practice for me personally has taken time to firstly understand and get used to the how the terminal environment works, finding handy commands, short keys and approaches that are absent from the very minimal void of an interface. The norms for this sort of terminal based sysadmin practice from my experience are written technical documentation which aim to act as references while you work. As part of our practice into this environment we started to make our own technical docs and as we came into contact with them started to question the norms of these sedimented approaches to configuring network infrastructures. From these sites of impact we started to question how these doc formats made these practices know-able and perform-able in very specific ways and by specific people. Technical docs normally take on the form of text and code intervals, which often procedurally get you to run commands, whilst giving you little background knowledge into what is being done or why. Some are even less descriptive and just have code functions and commands abstractly explained in technical language and figures which are inaccessible to non-expert practitioners. The background knowledge is itself often isolated to what needs to be known to run that command, setup that software or execute that code and does not clearly state politics or orientations of the software/infrastructures background. With Hamraie's flexible user (2017) we can understand that these norms are highly inflexible and the expert/super user is a shaping of a very specific body and person that most cannot access. The norms of these formats and the expected users they make room for hold the promise or (political) intentions of a specific setup, pipeline or approach towards network infrastructuring.  Being procedural unquestioning formats they dictate specific relations, politics and figures to manifest your local infrastructure through. This can be understood as taking on the determined roles and operational metaphors of a system without capacity to question them, or be given space to localise, improvise and reinterpret them to your own relations, desires and needs. To me this made me reflect on the ways that Miriyam Aouragh and Paula Chakravartty in _Infrastructures of Empire_ (2016) discuss how infrastructures bring with them and reinforce the politics of the creator, and with this there is a need to question these inherited norms and make room for this locality when manifesting them. These norms of docs and their technical practices hold these infrastructures in space, in line and for most out of reach.

Another key inflexibility of the Serpub infrastructure and these docs was the maintainability of its setup. This setup was predominantly based around the use of Tinc, which even though a very accessible VPN (compared to others) and one that comes from a genealogy of autonomous feminist servers, was becoming deprecated. This meant in many ways that any infrastructure based on these docs would (even if maintained) become obsolete, insecure and dysfunctional. This restraint to maintenance and deprecation crosses into all docs and infrastructures, but here provides a point of contact and friction to question how we would, with limited resources care for this technical infrastructural rot, and try to maintain the collective practices that go beyond them.

[^r2]: Katie Tindle, Batool Desouky, Suni Lao, Rebecca Aston + Me. \#\# (Con)figuring In-frastructures
[^1s]: https://tinc-vpn.org/