#### User Protocols

Once in sudo we then started to make everyone a user account for the server. These user accounts are the ones that each of us uses to access the server through and as a configuration orients the singular individualised user on a device. Here we was a very generative space for forming our own counter figures and found much joy in configuring ourselves, our roles and how we wanted to relate to each other on this server. In this reflective space we opened up a dialogue of how we desired to reorient the norms and sedimented relations that the figure of the *User* represents. Instead of users, which fit a particular normid body (Hamraie, 2017), and servers, which emerge from traditions of hidding labour (Krajewski & Iurascu, 2018), collectively we started to think about how we wanted to reorient our relation to this space. To figure this out we spent time chatting and writing up these imagined roles together. This configure-able room for roles emerged In-grid as maintainers, carers and caretakers of this space, but also personas, players and characters. These all also oriented towards this server and our infrastructure being a collaborator in our collective, moving it from a normalised user/using hidden servers relationship, to one oriented towards mutual care. This is highlighted within the middle of the notes in the comment "it is nice to be individuals in a collective". This is where we reflected on the bounds of these individual users and the server they are situated on merge, but also where the individual or user inside/outside of and around a collective or infrastructure can offer us other imaginaries of how our relations might be configure-able in that contact.

