## Configure-ability In-
These next two sections take on a closer inquiry into how Configure-able methods have emerged through In-grid's network infrastructuring practices, as well as how these practices and knowledges are shared through technical docs and workshops around them. I initially approach this inquiry through first person action research reflections around our collective technical and documentation practices. I then follow this up with a in-ternal In-grid workshop as an example of how these methods have manifested both accessible social and technical practises, but also ones that made room for us as a group to flex and re-orient the social and technical we manifested together.

## old ( workshops???)

This was both in the formation of the technical docs, but especially within the "practising protocols" workshops that emerged from them. These workshops focused on making room for people to collectively configure out these technical practices from their own experiences, contexts and situated knowledges. These workshops were originally developed to offer people accessibly insight into our collective practices through (con)figuring out infrastructures together and was presented as part a combined panel at 4S/EASST 2024 that we co-organised. This focus of this inquiry here though is the internal In-grid workshop of "practising protocols", where we collectively (con)figured out our new server together. I focus though on when I brought these workshops internally to enable us to set up our first collective server and in doing so manifesting intentions for it and how we want to work and relate through and around it. This was collated into a manifesto for our first collectively written publication, called the Femfester Manifesto (Simms et al., 2024) for the artists running data centres journal. Through these set of actions I aim to reflect on how these workshops have emerged as a way for us to make accessible not only technical practices of network infrastructuring, but also enable a flex-ability and agency to (con)figure them out politically and relationally otherwise in context together.