### Defining Inflexibility

When defining inflexibility, I proposed a few questions for us to work through together and to help define these terms and reflect through our collective practices and experiences. With these questions around inflexibility we touched upon many different aspects of what this term could offer to us. One of the major points of reorienting within our dialogues and definition of inflexibility was when I brought crip studies into this conversation. This was after members of In-grid joked about capitalism being the ultimate inflexibility, forcing our bodies into uncomfortable and unwanted orientations just to get by. In response I agreed, bringing this jest into focus with crip studies opening up the ways it critiques capitalism's invalidation of bodies and matters through dialogues of productivity, value and normalisation. From this opening up of crip studies and critical access, we very much overflowed with experiences and critiques of the frictions we had felt together. One clear example we touched upon from reflecting on In-grids collective organisational practice is how banking systems make no room for organisations like us, yet we need a bank to work easily, legally and viably. This dynamic left us with not only a very limited choice of one bank to work with, and the one that remain did not really match our politics, but also that this process has taken months to sort out through their dysfunctional admin system. Here we made sense of these frictions and how these systems had taken us from how we wished we could orient ourselves (e.g. having easy flow of funds held by an ethical source) to the inflexible position of having a glitchy bank account profiteered off by unethical businesses.

One point of friction around the definition of inflex came from whether restraints we put on ourselves could be understood as inflexibility. For example whether us keeping accountable to one another, taking our time and refusing certain relations or politics would be us being inflexible. Here I turned us again to this relational critique of access from crip studies, where the "problem" is not held in our individual practices of meeting our needs, but rather in the systemic relations of politics that limit our ability to reach our needs that could otherwise be possible. With this notion inflexibility is positioned always within the system, in it needing us to perform specific roles (users), and with specific bodily figures and horizons (normids), to be able to be valid and approachable. 

This point of where we went out of our ways intentionally together, and stepped out of line to orient towards our needs, politics and practices was in fact what I was hoping to discuss as in-flex-ability. It is the times we have wiggled to make room in these norms for the flexibility a body like our needs to be present. 

