#### Coalition, working groups and knowledge exchange

For this focus we reflected on how we as a collective have worked with others and exchanged knowledge, practices and built relations along the way. This work is very much emerging for In-grid, both in the sense that we are only just beginning to work with other collectives and communities but also in that we are starting to do more things and splinter off into smaller working groups. Both of these were places where we felt we needed to make room for feedback and exchange within the wider group for these practices and knowledges.

The inflexibility and friction we felt here came from two points of impact. One was how we relates as a group and with others, and how these exchanges are handled. Here we reflected back to points where relations had induced anxiety and had a huge impact on our capacity for exchange. These for us often originated form relations where we felt like others were trying to catch people out, penalise them, or not open up relations on a personnel situated level without prescribing them to a role. This was mainly felt when working with other collaborators, but of course still existed internally. We felt that these sorts of sedimented relations of policing undermined not only our capacities to work together as we needed to constantly validate our position, but also our enthusiasm and energy for those collaborations. ==The other friction we return to is our lack of funding, and how this curtails our capacity to meet the many people and matters we have in relation with the intimacy we wish we could.==

To care for, feel out and wiggle room within these inflexibilities, In-grid reflected on how we try our softest to have patience and be generous with each other and other others. This for us meant taking time to share knowledge, make room to let it sink in, bringing clarity through repetition, not in a way to reinforce bodies and relations, but like a tic (Maier et al., 2020) when someone forgets or is lost we gently re-orient ourselves together. So when someones like "why are we even bothering with banking/cloud/coalitions/being here it seems so much trouble", we can again go over why we have chosen to put ourselves in awkward relations to practice in-flex-ability around these systemic Inflexibilities, but are doing this in a way that distributes and reforms these sedimented relations. It is when someone vulnerably turns up 2 months later and they need us to recap some of that time to be in-sync-ish. For In-grid it was also about figuring out ways of making these repetitions and in-flex-abilities joy-full even. This is still very much an ongoing dialogue and one where the many members of In-grid are slowly forming our own practices and politics that can refuse these penal norms we live among, and form wiggle room and social/systemic flexibility for people to bring their own ways of being together in our collaborations.

