# Table of Contents {#table-of-contents .TOC-Heading}

[Orienting the table 3](#orienting-the-table)

[Sedimentation 4](#sedimentation)

[Queering the axis 5](#queering-the-axis)

[Transdisciplinary practice 8](#transdisciplinary-practice)

[The Crip Table 9](#the-crip-table)

[Political/Relational Model 10](#politicalrelational-model)

[Crip Time & Crip Futures - might restructure / add more refs on crip time? 12](#crip-time-crip-futures---might-restructure-add-more-refs-on-crip-time)

[Crip intersectionality & Coalition 18](#crip-intersectionality-coalition)

[Cripping Technology 22](#cripping-technology)

[Crip (Technoscience) Manifesto 25](#crip-technoscience-manifesto)

[Conclusion 30](#conclusion)

Now is the time for me to try and approach a crip table. This chapter brings the work in line with a crip axis to inquire into how I am approaching the institutional tables I am engaged in as a disabled practitioner and researcher. It gives some depth to why these tables have been impossible for me to approach as a crip, let alone get a grip on. This isn't because the physical institutional setup stops me from accessing them, nor does my chronic health often debilitate me, and fortunately my care system somewhat validates my disability[^1]. Nor is it that I am incapable of doing "quality" research. It is because of the political/relations of these institutions that burn me (out) every time I touch them. It is because when I come to these tables they cut away at my capacities. Here, as I will go on to discuss further, I am thinking with Ahmed's notation of sedimentation and the determined orientations of work that result in repetitive strain injury (RSI) being held in place, and that reinforce work to break bodies before they start.

When I come to these institutional tables I am neither willing nor able to follow these exhaustive straight paths they set, as with my fatigue I will need a nap on route, maybe make a stew, go for a walk to digest and take a bath to replenish and care for my bodymind. By the time I am ready and able, the path has often grown over, or I might have forgotten exactly what I was doing or where I am (going)[^2]. These crip lines are deviating orientations of survival and of life affirmation. What does it mean to be able to lay with these very queer and crip paths? Where can we hold this crip stuff and make times that celebrate them as places of generative access in conversation, instead of invalidating, problematising and backgrounding them from the tables where they have always been present but "hidden from view" ?

Through discussing these backgrounds this chapter acts as the positioning statement of the research. It aims to contextualise the research within queer and crip theory, specifically Sara Ahmed's work (2006) on Queer Phenomenology; Alison Kafer's work (2013; 2017; 2021) on crip time and her political/relational model of disability and Aimi Hamraie and Kelly Fritsch's *Crip Technoscience Manifesto* (Hamraie and Fritsch 2019). This framework is used throughout the thesis to not only frame the analysis but also situate the work from my experiences of institutional relations to access, computing and care as a crip & trans teacher, (en)coder, collective instigator and researcher. Following Sara Ahmed I aim to offer an approach to how "bodies take shape through tending toward objects that are reachable" (2006), specifically how this shaping takes place when approaching accessible futures for crip and disabled folks at the institutional tables of research, computing and care. Building from Ahmed's figure and framework of the table as an "orientation device" this chapter asks what are these tables I am approaching, and why do I (often) retreat instead of taking a seat? It questions what the normative and inherited political/relations of these institutional tables are, and how crip as method and situated experience, practice and knowledges enables us to imagine, coalesce, re-orient and manifest other tables into being.

This framework held in parallel with the *Crip-tic of Vignettes* chapter, forms an orientation for this research that proposes crip manifestings, manifestos, protocols and infrastructures as a way to re-orient the norms of computational practices through a cripping disorientation. This disorientation asking us to refuse the pull, the heckles and obligations of tech practices and to listen to our own crip and queer axes, ones of life affirmation and radical relational politics, to form our own deviating lines that fit our collective and community bodies instead of cutting away at them. This cutting away happens through the logics of institutional efficiencies that undermine, invalidate and regress the care institutions and their socialtechnical infrastructures. This thesis draws other lines of survival, of necessity and of crip movement making, where we refuse orientations of tables and relations that aim to break bodies before they begin. Instead, it seeks to form practices to manifest together orientations and movements that can turn these tables towards stories of collective liberation and care.

## Orienting the table

In Ahmed's Queer Phenenology, she keenly defines orientation[^3] as a way to situate the dialogue of direction. This move changes the scoping from a generalised and centralised dictation of direction that wider modernist philosophy denotes, to a situated and relational navigation of bodies. She does this by queering Husserl's figure of a table, his orientation towards it and his knowing of what is behind him as he does so (Ibid, 29). To do this she positions his back, and backgrounding of things, as the point of deviation that a queer phenomenology takes up in its analysis. At this inversion of direction and position sits the ability to wonder what is behind, to meander and imagine otherwise. Ahmed calls this "turning the tables"[^4], where we situate a table by letting its background sink in and by caring for the work and maintenance that is often ''hidden from view\"(Ibid, 63) to enable these queer, crip, social and domestic tables to be generative discourses within research and thought. This is where tables become many, where they deviate from straight standardised and projected 'known' formulas and become complex assemblages, with histories, sedimentations and horizons.

The "bodily horizon"(Ibid, 55) is key to understanding Ahmed's figure, as it asks, what do we orient ourselves towards? What do we bring towards ourselves from our horizon, and what objects do we let slip from view and out of reach? When we acknowledge we have limits to our perception, that we cannot see the whole environment, image or figure, we must be in a context. Ahmed's horizon queers phenomenology's horizon and encourages us to consider our own orientation, situate ourselves within our bodily horizon of social and domestic relations and ask which orientations of space make our bodies feel out of place. With Nirmal Puwar's 'Space Invaders', Ahmed shows how non-white bodies in places oriented for white bodies makes them feel "out of place" (Ibid, 133). She says that these bodies are disoriented by the society and people around them: "people blink and then look again" (Ibid, 135). For her this disorientation is a queer slanting of space, disorientations of bodies and that of bodies into objects. Ahmed poses disorientation[^5] as the point of failure, in which a body is placed into a form with which they do not fit, where they are objectified, and their needs are held out of reach.

When we "feel out of place" and disorientation is the norm, Ahmed poses the movement of being in retreat, of moving away from, whilst facing. In this retreat, she says, there is queer joy as we look back at a past fading, into a future which can enable "the condition of possibility for another way of dwelling in the world" (Ibid, 178). In feeling out of place at, disoriented by and in retreat from institutional tables this research(er) asks what it means to move within reach of another way of dwelling at these tables of computation, collaboration and institution, and specifically one that cares for and affirms crip and queer lives, experiences and knowledges.

### Sedimentation

Ahmed extends the bodily horizon to time, thinking of how repetitions, sedimentations and tendencies shape bodies. She makes an analogy here with a lump on her finger from where she grips her pen, where her finger has built up and sedimented its form in relation to the pen. Ahmed sums it up simply as "what we ''do do'' affects what we ''can do.''" (Ibid, 59). She refuses the hegemonic causality of a focus on doingas a singular straight direction. Instead, she suggests orientation is an expanding of a certain direction, that may relationally restrict others, but is not determinative. Her definition makes it possible for orientations and their sedimentations to not be singular in focus, and to enable us to navigate and approach complex relations on our horizons and to take queer paths between them. When this approach arrives at the regressive mono-logics of institutional efficiencies, it opens us up to many other paths and directions.

Ahmed also discusses RSI as a potential effect of inheritance, sedimentation, time, repetition, and the table. RSI is the strain and pain caused from bodies repetitively conforming to a tables that does not care for them and determines them to be disabled before they begin. Here, bent over, hunched and aching as we work, in this cramped spot, is the perfect time to stretch out into Ahmed's queering of orientation. With RSI, we overtly feel how our bodies want to be orientated[^6], but we are also contorted by our systems, infrastructures and relations, through the tables that orientate us towards an ideology of efficient work. Through a queer orientation, Ahmed prompts us to listen to our bodies, our aches and our axes, to feel what we tend towards or need to retreat from.

We can question these relations of RSI through Ahmed's concept of inheritance[^7], thinking through not only where these projections of contorted bodies and relations have come from, but also what they perpetuate. What are the horizons of these inherited relations, and what is reachable from these positions? When the straight/atomic home is orientated so that there is a "requirement that we bring home the "other sex" ... ''same race"" (Ibid, 127), then it is orientated to be self-perpetuating, autopoetic, and demanding a "good likeness". This orientation of a home demands that everyone be "in line" and maintain the norms and order of things, making sure that the relations and hierarchies "line up" between generations. Ahmed gives an example of drawing on tracing paper, copying lines over, and the sophisticated apparatus that philosophers, researchers and institutional tables maintain to keep lines straight by "holding" things in place. These institutional apparatuses often smooth over any lumps, bumps, pains and aches that could queer the line and make it deviate. Ahmed empowers us when we are disoriented by these enforced, inherited and sedimented lines, as this disorientation is a generative position to re-orient towards other tables and practices to sediment new queer and crip lines of affinity.

### Queering the axis

To queer this sedimented straightening axis, Ahmed starts by tracing the etymology of "queer". Queer in a spatial context means a twist in space, and when we combine this with definitions of sexual orientation, it poses a bent, deviant or crooked sexuality. Ahmed starts to queer the straight line to open us up to thinking about how we approach things on our horizon. If we are to move straight towards an object, as a singular other from determinate positions, then we can only take a straight path towards it[^8]. She demonstrates this at the dining table where one man sits opposite one woman. This emerges into the family table where we have set sides and positions. Ahmed shows how this line straightens out a queer or crooked one by pushing us to choose one side of the table. Ahmed questions how the queer line is portrayed as oblique when held against the straight line, even posing that the straight line needs the queer one against which to appear comparatively straight. Ahmed reorients this idea through her figure of the "contingent lesbian" (Ibid, 92), which queers Freud's notion of a "contingent introvert", who positions queerness as a lack of finding a partner of the other sex, and so turns to her own by default. Ahmed inverts this to position straightness as contingent, and sees lesbians not as defaulting to queerness in the lack of a suitable person of the other sex, but defaulting to straightness and the other sex when the familial line and sedimented straight norms put queer bodies out of reach. Here she is thinking about this not as a "coming out" as queer or lesbian but as "coming to" queerness through desire. This reorients these relations towards queer desire and away from the "requirement" of a straight line. This enables us to understand how we approach the world along our own crooked or deviant lines that take us towards different people, communities, relations and in doing so shape our bodies and sediment our own paths.

Key to this critique is a queer reading of Merleau-Ponty's "sensitive body"[^9] where Ahmed thinks about how inhabiting space produces a space to be inhabited. For example, a soft bottom creates a softer seat, that creates a softer bottom and softer seat. This concept is used to think about how a queer twist in the straight line of inheritance is itself conducive to forming a line that has space and capacity to be twisted. To think this through, she takes up the butch-femme dynamic of lesbian relations, and critiques not only the hetero perception of needing sexual difference or an opposite to attract but also queer critiques like Joan Nestle's "phony heterosexual replicas" that mimic this. With the help of Judith Butler she poses that the real need here is to question the necessity for difference in queer attraction, of the "requirements" of desire and relations. Ahmed instead positions these roles as performances as "erotic possibilities that can generate new lines of desire only when they are just that: possibilities rather than requirements" (Ibid, 99). In doing this she is opening up the possibility for bodies to not be determined by set relations but to be things to be desired, pursued, subverted and felt out. In this move she plays on lesbian fictions of Butch-Butch relations within Leslie Feinberg's *Stone Butch Blues* as well as Lee Lynch's *The Swashbuckler*, to show the comical navigation of desire of self within lesbian culture. She turns here though to state that these performed lines and bodily horizons of butch-femme are not illegitimate, but cautions against drawing "a dividing line" that can in itself "make other forms of sexual desire unlivable"(Ibid, 99). In this research, I have been playing with these ideas around queer relations in the context of wider intimacies, from how roles are performed with digital network infrastructures, to the emerging of indeterminate coalitions and collective desires.

Ahmed takes Merleau-Ponty\'s notion of the "sensitive body" to discuss how this "coming to" queerness shapes and forms our bodies through being in relation with and touching other queer bodies. She explains how being oriented towards other women doesn't just shape our sexuality, but also what other objects are reachable on our horizon. She shows how queer and lesbian desires move us sideways, taking us to different associations and connections that are often invisible to others. As we follow our queer paths she encourages us to refuse this straightening up, to not look back or reorient ourselves to/around straight heckles, however offensive they are, and to instead orient towards our own queer promise. This queering of the axis is to stay disoriented, to orient into possibilities that straight lines could never map, and to touch and hold our bodies in our own economies. A queer axis is one where the horizontal and vertical lines of inheritance don't always "line up", can be "off line", and challenge the sedimentations that hold us in place, force us to one side and keep us out of reach of our needs and desires.

Removing the "holding" things in place, we can move the tracing paper to other tables and relations; we see the grooves in these different tables, inducing a queering that animates these sedimented lines to be drawn otherwise. This means that if we take a seat at institutional tables as crips and queers[^10], even if it isn't orientated, approachable or stable to us, we are mutually affecting it. It means that when we bring ourselves, our thoughts and research to other queer tables, of coalition and of crip care, we can be comfy in our shared disorientation at hegemonic tables. The research we are doing gets slanted with our bodies to these other queerer axes. When we come to institutional tables along these queer axes, we take them off balance, grasping at them and nudging them to an orientation we need. This is a very queer dance that begins to happen when we refuse to be held in place, or hold other things out of place. We start to be able to stretch out, begin to feel our needs and to form tables and relations of affinity that feel mutual, constitutive and affective.

### Transdisciplinary practice

Moving from a queer axis this research sits at the intersections of a number of disciplines, so I find it important to reflect on Ahmed's thoughts around transdisciplinary practice. In queering the axis and the paths we take, we can think through what it means to not always know the path, to get lost and connect things that aren't together when they are held in place by sedimented norms. For Ahmed, potential naivety around the proper way of doing things is a place of production where queer lines are drawn and other paths are made. This means that there is great strength in holding to these institutional tables together, however much they may try to throw us off, or move apart. By being there, and by making wiggle room[^11], wiggling tables together and apart, we create the spaces we need to move towards the queer lines and modes of orientation that we need. This space to breathe means that we have the capacity to touch, feel out and imagine what our needs are and what paths may make these possible. Where do we have to move to be in reach of these needs and desires? Through transdisciplinarity we have the agency to imagine and practice what combinations of lines, what muddling of methods and disassociation of discipline enables us the room to make the change we need. Much like Ahmed's navigation of butch-femme dynamics, transdisciplinarity is not meant to de-legitimise disciplinary fields or sedimented relations, but is meant to approach them as performances of knowledge and practices. Orienting disciplines in this way means that we can start to make space for what was once "unlivable" in disciplines' inherited terms. Again, this approach in its disobedience doesn't outright discredit the disciplines it works with but asks how their performed orientations may cross, what that could put in reach, and how making disciplines touch in other ways reshapes the bodily horizons of the disciplines themselves. This moves the focus from boundaries to orientations and how we can trace situated queer paths between disciplinary lines for ourselves. In this research, I bring together and move across fields of queer feminism, crip theory, disability justice, STS, media studies, information studies, artistic/creative practice, and software studies, to ask how a crip network practice can be made live-able between the institutions of computing and academia that systematically invalidate disabled queer lives.

## The Crip Table

Here I turn to the crip table, and in doing so aim to extend Ahmed's understanding of what is in reach with contemporary crip theory. Ahmed is in many ways an amazing commentator on disability and anti-ableism, but here I turn to Alison Kafer's table, and to her work within *Feminist, Queer, Crip*. Kafer's formation of the Political/Relational model of disability, and discussion on Crip Time as a concept enables me to question through more focused crip lens how "bodies take shape through tending toward objects that are reachable" (Ahmed, 2006). In doing so I am thinking through how politics and relations form and hold disability in place, and in turn how through community, interdependence and collective access in action we can manifest and enable disability's indeterminacy to manifest many other futures together. I also inquire into Kafer's figuring of crip time not only as a way to hold many indeterminate bodies, but also as a way to understand and navigate the scoping of actions taken in this research. I reflect on the many scales that collaborative labours take, especially around manifesting and sedimenting infrastructures, from infinite small meetings and feelings that we could never capture, to scales of maintenance that could have ended yesterday, or could stretch beyond our lifetimes. With this, I also slip onto Kafer's table the *Crip Technoscience Manifesto* (2019) by Aimi Hamraie and Kelly Fritsch, to re-orient these dialogues towards social and technical infrastructures and science technology studies (STS). Here I orient the crip as a social and technical hacker, reforming and manifesting infrastructures through direct action, affective feedback and refusal that center crip knowledge and experience within making and doing. With this I ask what does it take for crips to make and sit cozily at tables of disability justice, access and life affirmation within and around institutions of research, computation and care? I want to approach these questions with others, with energy, excitement and joy, asking: where can we start to imagine and practise other political relations of liberation and affirmation, now?!

### Political/Relational Model

Alison Kafer's *Feminist, Queer, Crip* is a foundational work for understanding how disability can be analysed from a crip perspective and approach. It looks to complicate the way that disability is represented and mediated, moving on from both the medical model and social model of disability, to one that can hold the diversity of intersections queer and disabled bodies experience as well as critique the wider implications of a cure narrative. In the medical model of disability, as Kafer notes, quoting Simi Linton, "the proper approach to disability is to "'treat' the condition and the person with the condition rather than 'treating' the social processes and policies that constrict disabled people's lives."" (2013, 5). The medical model treats the sickness or "abnormality" of disabled people on an individual basis and in doing so ignores and invalidates the background to their potentially disabling social relation. In doing this the medical model also ignores the experiences of disabled people whose bodies are not only most affected by these orientations, but also have the affective and situated knowledges that are essential to enabling their nuanced affirming care. The medical model sees that "solving the problem of disability, then, means correcting, normalising, or eliminating the pathological individual" (Ibid, 5). A cure here can mean returning to being "able bodied" but it can also be interpreted as society being cured of disabled bodies. This medical model draws a line that forces disabled people to one side, and off of the table systematically through isolating them from it financially (Ibid, 39), as well as through eugenic regimes of genetic selection (Ibid, 76) and curing ideologies of technological enhancement (Ibid, 107).

A later and more accepted model within the disabled community is the social model, which aims to draw attention to the social aspects and the background of disability that the medical model invalidates. It does this through an 'impairment/disability' axis, which helps with understanding what a person is capable of and how a society/system can limit their abilities relationally. The social model defines impairment as "any physical or mental limitation" (Ibid, 7) and argues that "disability signals the social exclusions based on, and social meanings attributed to, that impairment" (Ibid, 7). Kafer sums it up simply: "impairments aren't disabling, social and architectural barriers are" (Ibid, 7). This is in many ways generative for re-approaching disability's "problems", moving them from the individual to societal, infrastructural and political scales.

With Susan Wendell, Kafer queries the social model by asking, "how far one must be able to walk to be considered able-bodied" (Ibid, 7). While seemingly simple, this question opens many political and relational queries. What are the geographies (are there smooth walkways on flat-ish land?), economics (could they afford the walking aid or pain relief tablets?) community relations (was their friend free and able to help, or community carer available?), politics (are their medications legal?) and infrastructures (were they able to connect to a community, was an input valid on a form?). These questions move the approach away from a standardised test on an individual, and into understanding the nuances of disabling political dynamics on people's abilities, relationally and societally . Wendell and Kafer consider both impairment and disability to be socially constructed, as bodies are only seen as disabled in relation to sedimented "able" ones. Returning to Ahmed, we could ask how Crips line up to the determinate straight able-bodied line? And Crips would probably respond, "huh? what axis?", or, maybe on another day, feeling more provocative, "We don't have to!"

Kafer also notes that the social model, when taken to an extreme, inverts the orientation of the medical model, and in doing so can invalidate people with disabilities acknowledging their pain and other impairments or their desire for a cure to them, as they play into the medical narrative of a cure they are trying to counter. In this inversion it can also overlook the fact that some disabilities, such as chronic health, pain and fatigue, will not change no matter how much we change social relations. Along this thread the social model also negates to think about how a cure narrative towards a particular (abled) kind of body can affect people who might not identify as disabled or be "impaired". Kafer gives the examples of anti-ageing creams that can play on the anxieties of getting old as well as growth hormones for shorter children to make them "normal" height. Both can be seen as ableist and reliant on a curative model. From this orientation, we can understand how the social model orients disability to be delineated along fine lines, and in many ways undermines the radical knowledges of disabled experiences and the relations they put in reach.

Kafer proposes the political/relational model to reorient the social model's impairment/disability axis. Kafer's model asks what immediate changes to relations not only validate, but also ease and enable the abilities of people living with experiences of disability, neurodiversity, chronic illness and pain "under any circumstances" (Ibid, 41), which I discuss further in the next section on Crip Time & Crip Futures.

In action, navigating disability through these models can be quite sad, as we understand how overwhelming these social and institutional politics and pressures are on our crip bodyminds, and how violent, forceful and invalidating they are in action. However, by being able to navigate and analyse these institutional tables and their bodily horizons from a crip orientation, we are able to set out our own paths to move around the sinkholes and vacuums they hold in place to erase our lives, experiences and voices from the discourse about disabled people and our place in the future. In this research this takes the form of questioning how we collectively organise around and with technology, away from curative narratives of efficiency and control within these institutional politics, and instead towards collective care, maintenance and access towards our own social and technical infrastructures.

### Crip Time & Crip Futures - might restructure / add more refs on crip time?

> "Can we tell crip tales, crip time tales, with multiple befores and afters, proliferating befores and afters, all making more crip presents possible?" (Kafer 2021, 418)

One of the focuses of Kafer's *Feminist, Queer, Crip* and her wider research is the figuring out of crip time. Crip time is manifested by many different people in crip theory, from Ellen Samuel's *Six Ways of Looking at Crip Time* (2017), to Margaret Price's *Mad at School* (2011, p. 62) which offers generative affective definitions, to Kafer's *After Crip, Crip Afters* (2021) and David P. Terry's *Explanation not Excuse* (2016) that poetically describe crip times. *Prioritizing Crip Futures* (Abrams et al., 2024) and Sins Invalid's *Crip Kinship* of Sins Invalid (Kafai, 2021, p. 75) show crip time in action in institutional and crip collective contexts Crip time enables a paradoxical and non-linear temporality that aims to sit with disabled people's bodies and experiences on their terms instead of enforcing a normative able-bodied orientation of time[^12]. In essence, crip time is the refusal of determinate, straight, evenly-paced timelies. I choose to build from Kafer's definitions because of her emphasis on the systemic and political relations of temporalities that freeze and hold crips and disabled folks in place, as well as the ways we can hack and form wiggle room around these dominant hegemonic times. Kafer builds up her definition through a few moves but starts by cripping Lee Edelman's queer time against the future (Kafer 2013, 28). Here she takes up the figure of the 'Child' as a symbol of the future that in queer theory is often also a symbol of the deterministic straight line of inheritance towards able straight futures[^13]. The figure of the Child is also heavily bound to the histories of eugenics, which conflated disabled, racialised, poor and indigenous bodies into the categories "feeble-minded" or "defective", used to justify forced sterilisation or euthanasia for the future of the "race" (Ibid, 30). The legacies of these eugenic logics persist in contemporary prenatal selection and abortion of disabled children to "solve" the problem before it starts, and which the UK has re-enitiated this year (Maia Davies 2025). It also enables the endless deferral of care for disabled folks, that instead of cares for them now orients funding to cure society and futures of their disabled bodies. One example Kafer takes up is of Noam Ostrander's interviews with young black men in Chicago with violently acquired spinal cord injuries (Ibid, 33). She highlights this case as it not only shows how the violent relations through which these men became disabled are so sedimented that their disabling was treated as inevitable, but also that becoming disabled was a foreclosure on their life, one that determined them to have no future. Here showing how disability is imagined by ableism to have no future, and that to authoritarian eugenics logics, reinforced through race, class, sexuality, gender identity and more, determine disability as a category to forcibly place bodies that they do not want to see in the future.

In her book Kafer engages with the figure of the "Child" to reorient dialogues around disabled futures and different peoples abilities to procreate more disabled bodies. As well as children Kafer is also exploring the capacities disabled people have to procreate culture and other social relations and intimacies. By doing so, she questions the hegemonic terms through which disability's futures are represented. She elaborates on this by studying both mainstream media narratives playing out these political imaginaries and contemporary social and technical infrastructures that enforce these politics systemically.

For example, Kafer reads Marge Piercy's *Woman on the Edge of Time*, and its legacy within feminist studies as a text that demonstrates "inclusivity" and political democracy within science (Ibid, 72). Through a crip lens, Kafer's analysis shows it is anything but inclusive or democratic. This Utopian world has in fact eradicated all disabled people without any mentionor dialogue that included them. The fictive society is in many ways Utopian because it has eradicated disabled people through genetic science and technological advancement. The fictive infrastructure that has enabled this is called the brooder, which mixes and selects genes to form neutral healthy children of all races, but in doing so eradicates disabled bodies without question. In the same move it also blends and displaces race as a way to cure us of cultural difference and racial inequality. When held in comparison to the depicted Dystopia, which is filled with disabled and mad bodyminds, we see how disabled people's existence here represents one of the main signifies of this utopian/dystopian split. Beyond the macro of this split, the only mention of disability in the utopia is of people taking mental health breaks, where they drop out from society. This in many ways still enacts the erasure of disability from society, put to one side, siloed and hidden from sight until normal or cured. Through Kafer's analysis we see how neither the utopian nor dystopian futures enable or imagine disabled people to live full lives, or affirm their experiences. In these futures disabled people are either the abundant problem or are silently cured from existence as part of the solution. In these narratives, disabled bodies, feelings and experiences are not included in the making of futures. In utopia, they have been invalidated and backgrounded at every step towards this "greater good".

In response we have seen how Kafer constructs a crip time that is able to hold the affective, embodied and experiential relations to time that disabled bodies are able to feel. This affective crip relation to time emerges through disabling relations to institutions, or just how disabled bodyminds queerly move through and experience time and space[^14]. Kafer presents many forms of crip time, from the slowing down and indefinite postponing of care, to the immediacy of when we need to care right now. Crip time takes the form of cycles of time that complicate the normative straight cycles of the able-bodied clock, and disables people from accessing in-flexible institutions, financial stability and self-determinacy.

Kafer aligns crip time with Jack Halberstam's discussion of queer time, in particular the "strange temporalities, imaginative life schedules, and eccentric economic practices" of queer life (Ibid, 35). For Halberstam,the immediacy of the AIDS crisis, specifically for gay men and their communities took them out of mainstream and normative time, to a time of "the here, the present, the now" (Ibid, 35). In crip contexts, Kafer describes a "falling time". Falling ill or getting a prognosis changes perceptions of time, shrinks futures and intensifies the present. When falling into depression, time is slowed to a stop, yet can fly by. How does time feel when there are uncertainties as to whether a chemical, food or unpredictable trigger could induce symptoms that will take you out of time? These fallings into "strange temporalities" leaves space for disabled people to feel these times as they are and not line-up to a straight and normative time, validating and enabling crip bodies to tell stories that can change how we think with time.

For "imaginative life schedules" Kafer brings to the forefront the ways that disabled people have to pre-plan and hack systems of care to be in reach of their needs. How partners and friends need to split carers and medicines, as systems have valued one over the other. How families and friends need to fill the gaps. How bathroom visits have to be pre-planned and scheduled. Kafer poses these "imaginative life schedules" not just as the extenuated day to day planning that most disabled people take on, but as the need to project crip bodies into the future to maintain them. This maintenance is highlighted not just as (re)production that we see within efficiency models, but as pleasurable acts of each day, and towards unknown practices of radical access. These schedules then become a place with a possibility of joy for organising and maintaining embodied futures for disabled lives that resist the violence of institutional and hegemonic determination of disabled futures.

With "eccentric economic practices" Kafer talks about the ways that crip people are hackers and economic re-imaginers. When the lines of systemic and institutional care don't hold you and you start to slip through. When they limit how much you can earn to maintain your care subsidies and determine you into a certain level of (dis)comfort. This is when these eccentric economics are necessitated and practised, to trade goods, favours and pleasures under the radar so that crips don't compromise our basic care. These economics for Kafer enable a blurring of the public/private in a way that enables these economics to be a test bed for us to imagine what politics might be capable of. This is where our everyday practices of collective access and interdependence become radical methods for rethinking the politics of how we come together.

Kafer's situates crip time between a time of falling in the here and now, meanwhile maintaining our bodies to enact a future with us in it by practising politics of our everyday. Kafer goes on to examine how this framing of crip time lines up against narratives of longevity, focusing on cripping Halberstam's notion of keeping going "under any circumstances"[^15]. In a queer refusal of longevity, hegemony is seen to reproduce deterministic futures indefinitely. A crip position sits with each body differently. Kafer asks what it means for that or this body to keep going "under any circumstance"[^16], and how can we ease the institutional and social pressures that curtail crip life at every turn. Here she is asking us to also step out and inquire, "what are the circumstances we need but also desire?", and by asking this, we can also ask how we can orient them to be in reach.

To make time for crip time, where we feel our crip bodies maintained in a future that holds them is to radically reconfigure our relations to almost every part of our lives under efficient time. To embody a future with us in it is to practice access as affirmation and to enable people the space and time to consent, to be fully present in and able to care for that time. A future embodied by crips would mean fostering time from a new set of roots that can overlay, intertwine and embrace multiple times. This radical embrace of crip time enables this space within relations, futures and immediate actions that make time for us to hold this crip stuff with care "under any circumstances".

To tie down and bring in-line the proliferating befores and afters of indeterminate crip time tales, as I have had to for this thesis, I have thought about how to find orientation within space and time that shifts, trickles and lets loose without reason. To sit in disorientation is to be crip, and to be crip is to be more than aslant from the straight axis of time. But with a crip disorientation as an axis, one that changes with bodies in relation, and holds more or less than the x,y,z of things, we can start to trace the paths of crip time tales to future horizons abundant with crips. In this research it has meant to hold slow[^17] to this crip clock, and find coalitions and collaborations where I can start to flex the normative and enable wiggle room for the "strange", "imaginative" and "eccentric" crip practices that can generate futures for us to inhabit.

### Crip intersectionality & Coalition

The Crip relation to intersectionality is one of the most radical approaches to the term, as it is so abundant and overflowing. This is due to the variety of bodies, experiences and struggles that exist under the broad terms of disability. Of course we can turn to Kimberly Crenshaw's definition of intersectionality(Crenshaw 1991; 2015), and it's emergence form groups like the Combahee River Collective, where "interlocking oppressions" form at the cross roads of identities. This in many ways comes from and speaks to disability (even if it is not overtly stated), but I find it more interesting to look at definitions that come from the overt practices of crip studies. This Crip kinship (2021) as Shayda Kafai would term it, is where the abundance of crip communities and interdependence of intersections shine. Kafai's book centres on the practices of Sins Invalid, a crip performance group started by Patty Berne and Leroy Moore. Sins Invalid's work centres expressing crip pleasures, joy and desire without shame and through interdependence. The group's definition of intersectionality is one that I hold dear in my research and repeatedly reflect on in my practice.

> "Sins Invalid defines intersectionality this way: "Simply put, this principle says that we are many things, and they all impact us. We are not only disabled, we are also each coming from a specific experience of race, class, sexuality, age, religious background, geographic location, immigration status, and more. Depending on context, we all have areas where we experience privilege, as well as areas of oppression... We gratefully embrace the nuance that this principle brings to our lived experiences, and the ways it shapes the perspectives we offer.\"\" (Ibid, 31)

This definition of intersectionality by Sins Invalid has helped me to think through how we can come together to practice crip freedoms together. To treat these intersections with care and situate our abilities, privileges and desires into and out of alignment, and within our capacities. Kafer also notes Robert McRuer's notion of "the non-disabled claim to be crip" (2013, p. 169), which I follow: the possibility of able bodied crips, of those working for the disabled cause, but also maybe those that recognise the "the disability to come." Committing to this wider scope of intersectional disability justice is a key step for any crip studies critique, as accessibly explained in Ella Parry-Davies' *Coming out Crip* (2022) audio piece. She, much like myself, is only "stable" because we live in the UK with a state health system that recognises our needs, and can "treat" them in its scope. If we were to live elsewhere, have different nationalities and the relational support those bodies have, we might not even be here, or able to make these statements. With this we embed ourselves within the mutual cause against all intersecting injustices towards disability

In this dialogue privilege and oppression are situated and negotiated by both approached with intimacy. With this I have asked how can I as a white crip researcher, within academic institutions that are often inaccessible to other intersections of disabled people, use my privilege and oppression in this experience and context to leverage resources and change discourses to position disability justice and radical access as the next action we take at every turn? It also asks me to know that I will never know the experiences of other people with disability and to have patience, to listen and learn to communicate my own sense making. It is to take our sweet crip ass time to get a feel for one another, and affirm each other along that path and journey.

I find it important to think through intersectionality with Kafer's reading of Ashley-X's story. This is because it clearly displays the ways we have to defy the urge to divide disability through its diversity, but to instead center and care for these bodies on the margins of our discourse. Ashley is born with "static encephalopathy", that leads her doctors to state that "her development never progressed beyond that of an infant", and means that she depends on constant care for her lifetime. The nickname by carers for the condition and similar disabilities is a "pillow angel". Another element of this relation is that her body developed at a "normal" pace, and at age 6 her parents started to be concerned about what puberty would do to her. From consultations with medical professionals they set up a plan to remove Ashley's uterus and breast buds, as well as put here on a high dose oestrogen regime. The medical professionals in dialogue with the parents validated this treatment for many reasons, from "saving" Ashley from pains of menopause and puberty, as well as keeping her small so her parents could care and protect her directly, as well as keeping her safe from her own mature body. This meant that the way Ashley and her body were unconsensually treated was to be shaped for the able bodied world around them. They just made her easy to handle as well as protected from relations held in place by ableist and violent sexist politics. I work with Kafer's reading of Ashley for a few reasons, partially as it highlights the ways disabled bodies and experiences are curtailed to fit ableist scales and needs, instead of considering the disabled bodymind's own needs and desires. It also shows the length that these sorts of ableist actions can be taken to, how far an individual who cannot oppose can be shaped to fit the efficient line, instead of questioning the political relations of the line itself. By questioning how we orient ourselves towards this line, either towards forcing an individual body to fit in, or towards asking what this body is capable of through interdependence, communication and care, Kafer opens up what intersectionality means for crips.

This is highlighted by some mixed views from both medicine and disability studies, whether a person like Ashley-X is too disabled to be disabled, and whether people like them need their own category (Kafer 2013, 67). This division provokes yet another boundary beyond the able/disabled projected axis, forming again new complex parameters that permit questionably dehumanising and violent treatments, such as the one Ashley-X recieved. Kafer asks here what if we place people like Ashley-X not outside of disability discourse, but in the centre of it? When we start to imagine relations and tables to care for these experiences and not determine and invalidate their communication ability, we open ourselves up to feel and be felt through many yet unknowable ways. Kafer's enactment of crip theory here also centres the joy of this communication. In Ashley-X's case, a double mastectomy and hormone blockers to stop her breasts growing means that Ashley was also disabled from having any pleasure from these removed organs. Their pleasure was never imagined, nor valued in their future, only their pain. That just because we are not yet able to feel their expressions of joy, imagine their bodily possibilities of pleasure and agency, or even contemplate their political desires means that it us who invalidated them without question from the dialogues of their daily life and future. Instead, the dialogue around Ashley's body focuses on pain or discomfort and keeping her secure from strangers, who may also feel this discomfort around her. Reflecting on Ashley-X through crip intersectionality, it can also be understood that this probably only happened to her as she came from a middle class American family that could afford to treat her through the medical industrial institutions. When I scope out of her context, I imagine how to be in dialogue with each other in such a diverse field that includes so many bodyminds and situated social/political relations. Again a crip move is to centre joy and pleasure as an actionable site for us to move from, but this is not to say we silence or ignore the very real pain that exists everyday within our community. It instead aims to move beyond deterministic narratives of disability as painful and awkward and asking what brings us joy, comfort and pleasure. Through feeling out these restraints we can interdependently ask how to put our desires in reach together?

This is where the interdependence of crips also sits as an essential practice. When we all struggle to perform as required and to be valued as able-bodied people, we have to help each other manage the gaps. Like we saw in Crip Time & Crip Futures with Kafer's take on Halberstam's "strange temporalities, imaginative life schedules, and eccentric economic practices", all of these crip times are threaded through community schedules, care and interdependence. These acts can range from just consolidating to each other that it is fine that we are sad and mad, that there are gaps in what we are able to do, and being there when we almost fall through them.

In the third episode of the Crip Club podcast[^18] , which discusses disabled representation in films and media, Clare Baines interviews Jessi Gutch around cancer portrayals (Baines, o. J.). In the podcast they not only talk around what it means for Gutch to not fit into the curative narrative of cancer, but she also shares her experiences of living with a disability whilst working in the film industry. The section I felt was most informative for understandings of intersectionality and interdependence of disabled folk here is when she is talking about working in a majority disabled set, which informed a a different set of expectations and capacities for one another. Gutch says that this formed a space where people could express their needs easily and have them affirmed, where everyone on set knew that this film was important, but not the most important thing. The most important thing is that everyone in this collaboration was feeling as good as they could in their bodyminds and able to do what they wanted to within the collaboration. It was where if they needed more time for this crip stuff they could have it without question.

In my practice as I have started to collaborate with more disabled and crip people I have also felt this same energy, where our wellbeing, capacities and feelings are prioritised over an imagined deterministic outcome or performance of work. I talk more about this in The Crip Table section, but to touch on one of these collaborations that is of note here was in the creation of the crip infrastructure en-crip-ing time[^19], a work that imagines and instigates crip times within computational time. One major part of the work was to focus on this type of crip relating between my collaborator Mariana Marangoni and I in the making of the infrastructure, which meant that there were no agile time-lines, roles or outcomes here, just crip times, flexibility and compassion. We both had many demands from life, and very crip times in relation to our bodyminds, but we both understood that for this intersection and crip infrastructure to work we both needed these times to prioritise ourselves. When one of us had to freeze time to recover or get through something it was okay, we just said, and adjusted the timeline or responsibilities. When one got stressed and anxious about the imposed time-lines, the other didn't combat this, but comforted it. The expectations would be reoriented to fit our current abilities, and frictions became places to learn each other's needs. This social politics, ways of relating and maintaining crip infrastructure became important to show in the work. To make it present in the background of the work we added comment sections in the html of the poem, showing our conversations of making time and space for this crip stuff.

In Kafer'sfinal chapter, 'Accessible Futures, Future Coalitions', she gives an example of Silvia Yee's work with the Disability rights education and Defense Fund (DreDF) (2013, p. 160). Kafer highlights their work with communities facing the overburden of toxic industries and emissions to show how policy and access put in place to help disabled people in many ways benefits everyone. In the case of DreDF the rights of children with respiratory issues can stop schools and institutions from using potentially harmful chemical pesticides, which can benefit not only the quality of life of everyone in that district but also reduces the ecological impacts. This presents Crip intersectionality as a powerful place where in coalition we can leverage our communities access privileges to not only improve their individual lives but to put a future we all want into reach.

If we bring this radical crip intersectionality into alignment with practising in communicating and forming dialogues of pleasurable crip interdependence, I see possibility for us to find joy in how we feel and care with and for each other and through our shared sociotechnical relations. Here I return again and again to imagine where we can find joy in rubbing up against each other's supports and restraints in relation, and how this practice is a language we all have to practise, one of sensing what each other's abilities, privileges, capacities, desires and feelings are, and learning to understand them as they unfold. In a crip intersectionality we have to in many ways turn to this movement of coalition in action, of bringing together divergent bodies and movements to manifest the change we need now. Crip coalitions in themselves are temporary comings together of differing politics, structures, goals and needs to configure the social and technical infrastructure for change and affirmation we need now. In Ren Britton's Coalition Bouquet[^20], they trace many of these histories and the improvised technologies, politics and communities that came together to blossom crip change together. Here these often complex, divergent and temporary coalitions can move beyond the predetermining confines of pain, which they may be, to where we reorient the problems of access and intersection as holding the possibility of joyous direct action and change.

In this research, this has looked like working between different departments, institutions, collective, projects, coalitions, mailing lists, servers and etherpads. Most importantly though, for me as a person with fatigue, chronic pain and other complicating factors, this has meant pushing for accessible ways of managing and maintaining collective practices, and trying to introduce a disorienting crip axis to (dis)align with. This inquiry has been about intersectionally and interdependently reorienting practices, timelines, expectations and priorities. In particular, thinking through how my own role in these dynamics can support crip politics, both in the organisation of and accessibility of collaborations, and in response to broader questions of interdependence and the networks, infrastructures, and politics collaborations uphold and are held in place by. This research asks what it means to collectively retreat and refuse certain oppressive politics and relations of tech, to instead move towards other intersectional care-full and life affirming infrastructures, politics and coalitions

### Cripping Technology

In *Feminist, Queer, Crip*, Kafer approaches technology by bringing the cyborg into alignment with disability in two places. Firstly, she questions how media represents disabled dependence on technology as real-life cyborgs, leading to the "rise of the cyborg" as the unquestionable and naturalised cure for disabled folks. Secondly, she moves towards a crip critique of Donna Haraway's *Cyborg Manifesto*, away from naturalised cyborg\~crip relations and towards practising relations that challenge the militarised imaginaries of cyborgs through a disorienting and disobedient crip approach. This refusal, not of these technologies, but of how their imaginaries are oriented, politicised and enacted, is key to this disobedient crip research.

Kafer's media analysis of cyborgs shows that they are again sedimented without question to be a cure for impairment, to make 'normal' disabled bodies. These narratives, as we see with Kafer's analyses of Chris Hables Gray's *Cyborg Citizen*, lead to Gray, an able-bodied science studies scholar, taking up the late *Superman* actor Christopher Reeve, without his knowledge or consent, as a heroic cyborg leading the way for the disabled community. Gray suggests that the "crippling of superman" and Reeve becoming dependent on multiple machines and devices is one of the best examples of a "true" cyborg. Gray states that Reeve is a hero as he leads the way for other disabled bodies to be cured through technology. Gray's text in many ways undermines the disabled experience, as it doesn't enable Reeve or other disabled and more specifically quadriplegic people to talk about the use of and relation to access and assisted living technologies. Kafer also points out that Gray overlooks and cannot imagine that there is a wider disabled community than just the celebrity in focus, Reeve, or that these communities have a long history and culture of living with assistive technologies that might be informative. Kafer also shows his use of language often refers to people with disabilities as "invalids" or "patients", conflating their whole identity and personhood with the injury or medical identification of their condition. Sitting here, Kafer is showing Gray as a prime example of what the deployment of disabled bodies in cyborg theory looks like. In one of many other examples, Annie Potts' "taxonomy of cyborgs" places Reeves in a list with fictional cyborgs, orienting him as less human and more cyborg, a construction rather than a complex, multifaceted person. In these cyborg curing narratives, Kafer shows how this signalling of disabled people as the truest cyborgs locks in and has sedimented the path so much that a cyborg itself becomes a signal for disability, abnormality and difference. The cyborg\~crip, the crip\~cyborg.

By contrast, Kafer reads Haraway's figure of a "cyborg" in the *Cyborg Manifesto* (2006) as problematic in some aspects, but an empowering multiplicity to think through using a feminist STS lens. The problematic notions of the cyborg are somewhat well known; for example, in homogenising experiences and taking an imperializing approach that dictates one figure of an identity for whole groups of people (Kafer 2013, 114). Kafer, however, offers a closer crip critique of Haraway's cyborg, tracing how she also has fallen into the sedimented route that portrays disabled bodies, or as she determines them "paraplegics and other severely handicapped people", to be exemplary or true cyborgs. In this move, Haraway makes a number of questionable choices. She addresses these imagined people with disabilities in terms of "handicap" and describes them as "paraplegic", which reinforces the individualism and diagnosis of the medical model. Kafer also points out this critique of naming languages was fairly common discourse within that era of disability studies, of which Haraway was likely aware. Haraway also homogenizes experiences of disabled people like she does for other identities, but in doing so displaces the affective relations to technologies these different disabled positions and experiences enable. She essentially does not include any affective disabled perspectives on what it feels like to be disabled and (inter)dependent with and on technologies and their infrastructures.

Even though Haraway's "cyborg" is in many ways flawed, especially in relation to disability, Kafer still finds it to be generative from a crip position. In particular, the cyborg can also figure the defiant feminist care in and against flawed and often violent technoscience. The cyborg finds joy in acts of practising radical care otherwise. Kafer sees the cyborg as a fluid figure that can enable us to unlock, disorient and de/re-sediment paths between people with disabilities and the technologies that support them. She refigures the cyborg as a place of embodied crip futures, on their/our terms, validating and tracing a plurality of paths we take with technology together. It is this focus on how the cyborg enables crip studies to cross paths with other disciplines and experiences that is what makes this a generative space for her. Kafer gives examples of different cyborg intersections within disability studies, such as Dean Spade's research into the medicalisation of transgender identities. Spade navigates trans experiences of gender identity disorder (GID), which is used to validate care and medication, but also acts to reinforce the binary of gender as well as prolong and delay care (Kafer 2013, 124). GID also leads to tensions, with potentially ableist undertones and a medicalisation of queer identities, where needing to self-identify and be validated as having a "condition" or disorder to be treated as trans could lead to gender identity being read as an individual handicap instead of political and relational issue. We can also read this medicalisation of GID as reproducing the "curing" narrative, where specific treatments can resolve the individual "problem" of gender identity, and can be industrialised. Kafer works with Spade and others here to trouble these notions by stating "that neither medical technologies nor diagnoses can be characterized as purely oppressive or politically neutral" (Ibid, 125). This (dis)orientation approaches the individual within the relational, situated, and enables the cyborg body and their bodily horizons to be read as "maps of power and identity". In doing this, the cyborg also makes space for "affinity-through-difference"[^21], where disabled people as a very diverse community can come together and lay with the disorientation of these many contradictory bodily maps and horizons. With this Kafer figures crip people to be cyborgsnot because of their bodily relations and dependence on assistive technology and technical infrastructure, that have been naturalised to signal disability, but because of the political practices we disobediently undertake. These acts of refusal are the tracings of our own queer and crip lines, the feeling and weaving of other crip techno bodies and relations. Some examples of this kind of rubbing up against and disobeying technology, whilst living with disability through it, can be seen in Laura Forlano's many works critiquing the cyborg as a concept. In both her *Hacking the Feminist Disabled Body* (2016) and *Living Intimately with Machines* (2023) she foregrounds the disabled experience of technology and relation to it as a place of generative friction, if oriented that way, that can enable other perspectives, methods and ethics. Kafer concludes her analysis by vulnerably opening up the idea that the cyborg within this plurality is also not the only figure for disability, as some disabled experiences may relate more and some less to these technological entanglements. However, she does suggest that attending to these sites where disability is visible within discourse, much like Haraway's intervention into cyborg theory, and my own into configuration theory later, is an intervention we can take up to retell crip stories and enable agency around the projected futures of our disabled bodies. In doing this in interdependence we can start to bring together these looser, flexible and situated figures of the cyborg, as crip hacking relations and disobedient politics that aim to fit technologies to our bodies more comfortably, and which tell and manifest other stories of futures that can hold crips not invalidate or un-imagine them.

#### Crip (Technoscience) Manifesto

Kafer follows up on *Feminist, Queer and Crip* (2013) with a talk called *Health Rebels: A Crip Manifesto for Social Justice* (2017). In this talk she covers many of the bases of her work that I have covered elsewhere, but through other informative anecdotes, experiences and relations through which to imagine this work. The focus in this talk is coalition, of cross-issue collaboration and working within difference together. In the talk Kafer appears to refigure her crip cyborg into a number of other figures, such as "health rebels", "the checklist", and "the manifesto". Health rebels play out somewhat similarly to the cyborg, as the defiant crips in the face of the medical industrial complex and institutional ableism. In coalition, living crip as method, multiple and indeterminate, forming frictions at our many intersection with these generalised and prescribed norms. Disobediently disoriented, aligning to the crip axes. The checklist represents the rubric, matrix or limited drop-down selection that indeterminate disabled bodies are (in)validated through. I discuss this further in the computational table section, where efficient logics determine static lines that are used to invalidate needs, experiences and care. Building on her earlier troubling of the crip cyborg as the only figure to live by, Kafer loosens and refigures the manifesto to be a place of wiggle room, of playing out our dreams, testing out futures, of finding gaps and frictions in these manifestings as generative places to write other crip manifestos and imagine other futures from. To do this she looks to queer theory, as we could easily to Ahmed, to think about how a manifesto (or an orientation) moves along a horizon, foreclosing and limiting some relations whilst putting some others in reach. For Kafer, quoting Audre Lorde, the manifesto is "believing, working for what has not yet been while living fully in the present now."[^22] Here it acts as a place to live with uncertainty and practise actioning and inquiring into crip methods for indeterminate futures. In this research I ask alongside Kafer how, through a plurality of manifestos, can crip studies and disability justice take on struggles we may have never imagined before? And how can we try to imagine access for people and relations that have not been imagined or thought of at these institutional tables yet?

In this research, I find it helpful to move on from (but still with) Kafer's cyborg as manifesto and work with Aimi Hamraie and Kelly Fritsch's *Crip Technoscience Manifesto* (2019) to orient this work not only specifically towards technoscience but also to highlight crip manifesting and manifestos in practice. Their manifesto reiterates Kafer's work in a similar way to what I have discussed here, but situates it through more specifically STS relevant examples and positions. Key examples that are relevant to this work include ADAPT activist forming and shaping physical infrastructures by pouring ramps and smashing curbs, as well as Alice Wong's *Disability Visibility Project* forming social and media representation by and for disabled people. Both examples, and many other crip sociotechnical hackings, manifest forms of direct action, of making change and caring where institutions invalidate the political/relational forms through which they perpetuate ableism. Hamraie and Fritsch orient the *Crip Technoscience Manifesto* itself through commitments, forming a Manifesto through specific direct actions, protocols and relations. They do this to not only make the manifesto clear and accessible, but also to project into the future the embodied actions and relations that could enable crip discourses and practices to flourish in relation to technoscience.

I discuss these commitments below to highlight key orientations this work is building from.

> "Crip technoscience centres the work of disabled people as knowers and makers."

This positions the everyday practices and experiences of disabled people as that which enables them to best know their bodyminds and relations to technologies and society. They work with a few examples of crip designers to show how this plays out in action. Alice Loomer, for instance, shows us how wheelchair maintenance and hacking by the person using it, even though not a frictionless experience, forms relations with technology that are situated in relation to that body and its horizon. They quote Loomer saying, "I have equipment that fits me", suggesting how embodying technologies can be an enabling practice within crip technoscience . This is not to glorify the Do-It-Yourself practices of disabled people, as some may not be able (or want) to do "it", but it is to uplift the "world-dismantling and world-building labors" that "misfitting" in the world as a crip means and to orient from that disorientation.

> "Crip technoscience is committed to access as friction."

Friction for Hamraie and Fritsch represents the refusal to fit in of crip technoscience, of wanting more than the slots you are offered in the determined checklist, and taking actions and making frictions to enable this. They lay with the "non-compliant user", from Ray Lifchez and Barbara Winslow's book *Design for Independent Living* (1979), who use technology as a friction against an inaccessible environment to highlight the change needed[^23]. They also discuss Collin Kennedy, an activist and cancer patient, who refused capitalist time around care by spraying expanding foam into hospital car park meters. In doing so, Kennedy disabled the ability to monitor and charge patients visiting the hospital, and so forming new possibilities and imaginaries of crip time through direct action forming friction. When thinking of frictions, I also want to return to the section on Crip intersectionality with Ashley-X, and think again about the possibility of curtailed joys and pleasures that can come from the frictions of our disabled lives. With crip technoscience this also means asking how direct actions, material transformations, practice of maintenance, the rubbing up of restrictions, and the frictions felt can be places of joy. How could Kennedy making crip time in a car park bring joy to not only him, but also to others who were visiting that day, and did not need to rush, or keep in-line or on time? These friction-enabling experiences of crips slips beyond institutional and capitalist time and offers glimpses of a future we can wiggle into. With "access as friction" we can embrace the struggles of making change where we need it, of getting in the way, and reorienting conversations and in doing so change the material world around us, possibly even with unknowable joy and pleasure.

> "Crip technoscience is committed to interdependence as political technology."

In the scoping of both feminist technoscience and the political/relational model of disability, how we work together around/for/with technology is itself a type of technology and method that we must focus on and practice. In crip technoscience and wider crip studies, there is a dedication to practising interdependence, through focusing on what our abilities build up to together.. What politics come from these places, what emerges from the ground up and can radically change the ways we imagine, embody and practice potential future politics now? One example Hamraie and Fritsch quote which resonates with this work is that of Mia Mingus's "access intimacy" (2017), which is hard to describe but easily felt. Access intimacy attends to how much someone 'gets' another's access needs, how much they make them feel comfortable around airing them, even if it's stating you don't know right now, and how willing they are to get to know you and your needs. Access intimacy as a concept enables us to imagine ways of relating to each other and how to be intimate with each other's access. To be open to the unknown and practice getting to know other's access needs.

> "Crip technoscience is committed to disability justice."

Manifesting crip technoscience that engages in disability rights goes beyond the assimilationist ideologies of mainstream accessibility to think about how through interconnected struggles, and finding justice in them, we can enable more radical practices for and with sociotechnical systems. When working for disability justice, we see crips refuse painful assistive technologies which only normalise their bodies to make others more comfortable. Disability justice also aligns this work with many intersections of disability studies to form a crip technoscience that is informed by and practices with working class, black, brown and indigenous disabled knowledges. It is one where we vouch for crip wholeness and life affirmation as places we can radically challenge the economics and politics of ableist powers that see us as broken or invalid. For this holding the impossible they turn to Eli Clare (2017), whose work suggests we can be broken and yet whole, imperfect, but valued, and holding a generative tension between the (not) opposites of these things.

Hamraie and Fritsch engage with the work of Sins Invalid and other crip artists and hackers to think through what Alice Sheppard (2019) calls "cultural-aesthetic technoscience". This is where they bring together new assemblages and aesthetics for communicating these complex relations of wholeness. Sins Invalid, for example,combineperformance, technological aids and films doused in unashamed crip joy and pride, not hiding, but embracing and putting on show the potentials for love, grief and playfulness in a very serious but joyous space. As these thinkers and artists show, joy and pleasure are not the only way to achieve disability justice as they can undermine the complex relations of disability globally, which work through oppression and debilitation as politics. Instead, engaging in and enabling this contradictory wholeness of disability justice is what makes a crip technoscience that can build from existing threads of resistance. It is where we can build from the non-innocent, from the disabling continuation/aftermath of war, petrochemical and medical industrial complex, working with these crip experiences, knowledges and practices to form other ways of caring for each other, our technologies and our world.

Crip manifestos are multiple in the ways that we can understand them coming together and into action. They can move from stating principles for their organisation or community, such as Sins Invalid's *10 Principles of Disability Justice*[^24], Johana Hedva's *Access Rider* (2019) and Healing Justice London's *community agreements*[^25]. They can also take up imagining infrastructural needs and transforming norms to a crip axis, which we can see with MELT's *Access Server*[^26], Nat Decker and Cielo Suacedo's *Cripping Compute Graphics* (2023) as well as Carmen Papalia's *Pain Pals*[^27] and many mentioned earlier in this section. They can also take the form of literary fabulations and manifestos, such as Kevin Gotkin's *Artists in Presidents* speech encouraging us to get cozy[^28], Ren Britton and Helen Pritchard's call *For Careful Slugs: Caring for Unknowing in CS (Computer Science)* (2022) as well as Sophia Maier, V. Jo Hsu, Christina V Cedillo and M. Remi Yergeau's call for us to *Get the Frac In!* (2020). These crip forms of manifesting, of making principles and agreements, of forming and imagining infrastructures and spaces we need now, and of telling stories of futures and relations with us in and yet to unfold, are what this research orients from. It thinks through how we collectively can imagine and action these other sets of politics, protocols and ways of relating from the sites of impact, touch and friction, and feel out from these crip&queer disorientations and towards community led technology. In this movement I have taken up disobedient action research as my methodology, as the next chapter highlights. In this work, my research is performed across scales, from internally inner arcs of embodied change and practice to movement that aim to go beyond and dance with the institution's limits and norms.

## Conclusion

This chapter has shared how my research is orientated through a crip and queer approach that aims to trouble the sedimented ableist norms of computing practices and technoscience through a disobedient queer axis of disorienting Crip manifestings. With this approach, the research works though a Cripping of technology, focusing on where there are slips and slants in orientation between normative logics within computing and those of a crip embodied and relational axis, and how these slips enable us to imagine and practise crip futures. In bringing Ahmed, Kafer, Hamraie and Fritsch, as well as many others, together in a crooked crip line for this chapter, I have formed a framework that aims to overflow from sites of friction. This is to not avoid or invalidate these disconnects and misfittings, but to think through how they can generate other orientations from a position of radical Crip intersectionality, interdependence and disability justice. Working from these crip slants, naps and f(r)ictions are places that can take us off the sedimented straight line of inheritance, break open the normative pipeline, and its determined relations, and enable this research to question how we want to approach relational "problems" we are entangled in for ourselves.

To reorient these tables and relational norms I focus on the Crip imaginary table as an axis of radical access, interdependence and coalition where we can practise and research other sedimentations of computing that move away from ableist and violent relations, and towards infrastructural politics of care and affirmation. This crip axis enables this research to take on coalition and of movement making as a key practice, thinking through how social relations of infrastructures are political technologies that we can coalesce (in) together. I focus on praxis and action, to entangle crip and intersectional theories and politics with how we can hack together our own infrastructural needs now, both social and technical.

Alongside the Criptych of Vingets, this chapter aims to provide fertile methodological ground for crip manifestings to be approached through disobedient actions and within computing. This methodology and its multiplicity of manifestings will unfold more throughout the thesis, but invokes a need for more digital network practice within crip theory, and their intersectional crip actioning through collaborations in and around institutions. This is to think about how we can foster crip practices and politics of radical care, but also to think about how these politics can overflow and emerge new lines elsewhere and for others facing efficient, white supremacist and curative politics. This approach aims to form collective politics that do not determine or prescribe protocols, but contemplate how we can become intimate with each other's access and needs as well as becoming the practitioners and knowers of our own (life affirming) infrastructures to gain agency at the tables we have always been present at, but were never allowed to get to grips with.

Abrams, Emily J., Colleen E. Floyd, and Elisa S. Abes. 'Prioritizing Crip Futures: Applying Crip Theory to Create Accessible Academic Experiences in Higher Education'. *Disability Studies Quarterly* 43, no. 4 (3 September 2024). <https://doi.org/10.18061/dsq.v43i4.8270>.

Ahmed, Sara. *Queer Phenomenology: Orientations, Objects, Others*. Duke University Press, 2006. <https://doi.org/10.2307/j.ctv125jk6w>.

Britton, Ren Loren, and Helen Pritchard. 'For Careful Slugs: Caring for Unknowing in CS (Computer Science)'. *Catalyst: Feminism, Theory, Technoscience* 8, no. 2 (7 November 2022). <https://doi.org/10.28968/cftt.v8i2.37723>.

Clare, Eli. *Brilliant Imperfection: Grappling with Cure*. Duke University Press, 2017. <https://doi.org/10.2307/j.ctv1168bcj>.

'Coming Out Crip and Acts of Care'. *Arts & Ideas*. BBC Sounds, 10 August 2022. <https://www.bbc.co.uk/sounds/play/p0cs04pq>.

Forlano, Laura. 'Living Intimately with Machines: Can AI Be Disabled?' *Interactions* 30, no. 1 (January 2023): 24--29. <https://doi.org/10.1145/3572808>.

Hamraie, Aimi, and Kelly Fritsch. 'Crip Technoscience Manifesto'. *Catalyst: Feminism, Theory, Technoscience* 5, no. 1 (1 April 2019): 1--33. <https://doi.org/10.28968/cftt.v5i1.29607>.

Haraway, Donna. 'A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late 20th Century'. In *The International Handbook of Virtual Learning Environments*, edited by Joel Weiss, Jason Nolan, Jeremy Hunsinger, and Peter Trifonas, 117--58. Dordrecht: Springer Netherlands, 2006. <https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4020-3803-7_4>.

Hedva, Johanna. 'Hedva's Disability Access Rider'. Tumblr. *Sick Woman Theory* (blog), 22 August 2019. <https://sickwomantheory.tumblr.com/post/187188672521/hedvas-disability-access-rider?ref=futuress.org>.

Kafai, Shayda. *Crip Kinship: The Disability Justice & Art Activism of Sins Invalid*. Vancouver: Arsenal Pulp Press, 2021.

Kafer, Alison. 'After Crip, Crip Afters'. *South Atlantic Quarterly* 120, no. 2 (1 April 2021): 415--34. <https://doi.org/10.1215/00382876-8916158>.

---------. *Feminist, Queer, Crip*. Bloomington, Indiana: Indiana University Press, 2013.

---------. 'Health Rebels: A Crip Manifesto for Social Justice'. 6 April 2017. <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YqcOUD1pBKw>.

Laura Forlano. 'Hacking the Feminist Disabled Body » The Journal of Peer Production', March 2016. <http://peerproduction.net/issues/issue-8-feminism-and-unhacking-2/peer-reviewed-papers/issue-8-feminism-and-unhackingpeer-reviewed-papers-2hacking-the-feminist-disabled-body/>.

Lifchez, Raymond, and Barbara Winslow. *Design for Independent Living: The Environment and Physically Disabled People*. New York: Whitney Library of Design, 1979.

Maier, Sophia, V. Jo Hsu, Christina V Cedillo, and M. Remi Yergeau. 'GET THE FRAC IN! Or, The Fractal Many-Festo: A (Trans)(Crip)T1', 12 August 2020. <https://cfshrc.org/article/get-the-frac-in-or-the-fractal-many-festo-a-transcript/>.

Margaret Price. *Mad At School Rhetorics Of Mental Disability And Academic Life*, 2011. <http://archive.org/details/price-mad-at-school-rhetorics-of-mental-disability-and-academic-life>.

Mingus, Mia. 'Access Intimacy, Interdependence and Disability Justice'. *Leaving Evidence* (blog), 12 April 2017. <https://leavingevidence.wordpress.com/2017/04/12/access-intimacy-interdependence-and-disability-justice/>.

Pritchard, Helen V. 'Clumsy Volumetrics - Volumetric Regimes', 23 August 2022. <https://volumetricregimes.xyz/index.php?title=Clumsy_Volumetrics>.

Samuels, Ellen. 'Six Ways of Looking at Crip Time'. *Disability Studies Quarterly* 37, no. 3 (31 August 2017). <https://doi.org/10.18061/dsq.v37i3.5824>.

Saucedo, Cielo, and Nat Decker. 'Cripping\_Computer\_Graphics: Perspectives on Disability Representation in CG via Community Generated 3D Asset Library'. *First Monday*, 7 February 2023. <https://firstmonday.org/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/12900>.

Sheppard, Alice. 'Staging Bodies, Performing Ramps: Cultural, Aesthetic Disability Technoscience'. *Catalyst: Feminism, Theory, Technoscience* 5, no. 1 (1 April 2019): 1--12. <https://doi.org/10.28968/cftt.v5i1.30459>.

Terry, David P. 'Explanation Not Excuse: Attention Deficit Disorder, Collegiality and Coalition'. *Disability Studies Quarterly* 36, no. 2 (26 May 2016). <https://doi.org/10.18061/dsq.v36i2.4447>.

[^1]: As some disabilities are invalidated, or indeterminate within medicine, often leading to some of the most exhausting and painful experiences, that are still somehow invalidated.

[^2]: No matter who I am.

[^3]: "Adding ''orientation'' to the picture gives a new dimension to the critique of the distinction between absolute space and relative space, also described as the distinction between location and position." (Ahmed 2006, 12)

[^4]: "In a way, a queer phenomenology is involved in the project of ''turning the tables'' on phenomenology by turning toward other kinds of tables. Turning the tables would also allow us to return, a loving return we might even say, to the objects that already appear within phenomenology, such as Husserl's table, now so worn. Such tables, when turned, would come to life as something to think ''with'' as well as ''on.'" (Ahmed 2006, 63)

[^5]: "Disorientation involves failed orientations: bodies inhabit spaces that do not extend their shape, or use objects that do not extend their reach. At this moment of failure, such objects ''point'' somewhere else or they make what is ''here'' become strange."(Ahmed 2006, 160)

[^6]: Mine is often in bed.

[^7]: "Such an inheritance can be rethought in terms of orientations: we inherit the reach ability of some objects, those that are ''given'' to us or at least are made available to us within the family home." (Ahmed 2006, 126)

[^8]: "The straight line would be that which moves without any deviation toward the"point\" of heterosexual union or sexual coupling: any acts that postpone the heterosexual union are perverse, which thus includes heterosexual practices that are not "aimed" toward penetration of the vagina by the penis"(Ahmed 2006, 78)

[^9]: "*At the same time that we acknowledge this risk of universalism, we could queer Merleau-Ponty's ''sensitive body,'' or even suggest that such a body is already queer in its sensitivity ''to all the rest.'' Merleau-Ponty's model of sexuality as a* *form of bodily projection might help show how orientations ''exceed'' the objects they are directed toward, becoming ways of inhabiting and coexisting in the world."* (Ahmed 2006, 67)

[^10]: If we have the capacity to.

[^11]: "Sometimes that is what we struggle for: wiggle room; to have spaces to breathe. With breath, comes imagination. With breath, comes possibility. We might in spilling out of the rooms we have been assigned, in our struggle with an assignment, mess things up." wiggle room blog post

[^12]: "rather than bend disabled bodies and minds to meet the clock, crip time bends the clock to meet disabled bodies and minds" (Kafer, 2013, p. 27)

[^13]: "The Child through whom legacies are passed down is, without doubt, able-bodied/able-minded" (Kafer 2013, 29)

[^14]: "How can i articulate a queer crip time that does not oppose queerness to longevity yet maintains a critical stance toward hegemonic expectations of (re)productivity? Or, to put it differently, how do i respond to the fact that the theories we deploy, the speculations we engage, play out across different bodies differently?" (Kafer 2013, 44)

[^15]: "\[W\]e create longevity as the most desirable future, applaud the pursuit of long life (under any circumstances), and pathologize modes of living that show little or no concern for longevity."(Kafer 2013, 41)

[^16]: "i read "under any circumstances" and hear "extraordinary measures," "breathing through a machine," "dependent on others." i read "under any circumstances" and hear "better off dead" and "life not worth living."" (Kafer 2013, 41)

[^17]: As opposed to hold fast.

[^18]: <https://thecripclub.co.uk/podcast/>

[^19]: <https://time.cozy-cloud.net/>

[^20]: https://lorenbritton.com/projects/coalition-bouquet

[^21]: Who Kafer with Chela Sandoval, lament over the often misplaced genealogy of "affinity-through-difference" to Haraway, instead of to the contemporary indigenous writings (Kafer 2013, 117)

[^22]: Full quote: "One of the hardest things to accept is learning to live within uncertainty and neither deny it nor hide behind it. Most of all, to listen to the messages of uncertainty without allowing them to immobilize me, nor keep me from the certainties of those truths in which I believe. I turn away from any need to justify the future- to live in what has not yet been. Believing, working for what has not yet been while living fully in the present now." ― Audre Lorde

[^23]: "Illustrating this with an image of a powerchair user wheeling against traffic on a street without curb cuts (1979, p. 153). This technology-enabled movement against the flow of traffic marks anti-assimilationist crip mobility: not an attempt to integrate (as in the liberal approach to disability rights), but rather to use technology as a friction against an inaccessible environment."(Hamraia and Fritsch 2019, 11)

[^24]: https://sinsinvalid.org/10-principles-of-disability-justice/

[^25]: https://healingjusticeldn.org/methodology/community-agreements/

[^26]: http://meltionary.com/antiableisttech/accessserver/

[^27]: https://leonardo.info/criptech/eaat/pain-pals

[^28]: https://www.artistsinpresidents.com/kevin-gotkin
