### En-Crip-ing \<Head/Body\>

Here we found ourselves a little conflicted within the work as we wanted to keep people in contact with, feeling friction around, and making impact on the terminal, server and infrastructure. Here though we also recognised this as a barrier to access the work as it needed somewhat "expert knowledge" to do. Here when caring for this site of friction we deciding to reorient it from being in a terminal to being a html page that could be accessed online. In this move the work did retreat from the terminal (a bit), but also in doing so put it in contact  the back end of this infrastructure and exchange online for people to connect to directly. Here instead of en-crip-ing a simple text file we moved directly to en-cip-ing a HTML file served up on the Cozy-Cloud. This move also crips the animated relations of normative web stack. HTML, which is a high level languages is normally isolated to work with other high level languages like css and js. In this work we disoriented this by configuring it to make edits to this page directly from Cozy-Cloud's low level chronicly Cripped times. In this motion crossing scales of infrastructures and making accessible and knowable the computational labour and matters that are hidden from this table.

As the en-crip-ing scrip we had written, and many chronic illnesses, are both very indiscriminate this also made room to reflect on these cripping actions of infrastructures elsewhere. In particular, much of the formatting of HTML is hidden, but this chronic job did not have the capacity to care, and so en-cripped the \<head\>, the \<body\> and everything else in the file. Instead of trying to "fix" this, our crip expertise found this happy accident reflected much of the bodymind critiques of crip studies. Here when configuring it out we felt how this same dialogue can be taken to infrastructure, here making frictions within the relations of what is served, and how it is served up.

Mariana with her (almost) infinite knowledge of feminist net art practices also brought into focus the "early net-art and cyberfeminist works that reflected upon the structure of HTML as executable anthropomorphic metaphors, such as Mariela Yeregui's «Epithelia» and Talan Memmott's «Lexia to Perplexia.»"(Simms & Marangoni, 2025). With these references offering how these two legacies, politics and practices of crip theory and feminist net art have already (always) overlapped, and how people have disoriented and made room for these infrastructures to be configure-able in relation to their situated embodied knowledges and expertise.

