### Manifesting intentions

To produce the intentions for the Cozy-Cloud I decided to form a set of accessible stickers and Alt text pairs, that could be shared online, as physical and mobile messaging stickers. The decision for choosing this format was for a few reasons. The first because stickers in messaging apps such as signal are a place that have emerged some amazing community driven sticker packs for different activist practices. This includes some like *Nematodes and Counter Clouds*[^r4], *Energy Give Away*[^r5] and *In The Ruins of Big Tech*[^r6], which have used this medium to bring these dialogues and relations into our everyday messaging and have been manifested collectively by TITiPI, Varia, Lauren Berlant, Alexis Pauline Gumbs, Ren Britton, Other Weapons, Underground division, Batool Desouky and the list goes on. When you send and share these stickers you also send their background and intentions with them, and in these situated transformations they form other modes of dialogue around community, friendship and action together.

The second reason that I took this up is also because I felt an access friction within this messaging stickers and a need to try to add Alt texts to this medium. Alt texts are an accessibility practice where you write texts to accompany images so that those who are not able to view them due to visual impairment or other reasons can still be involved in the dialogue that those images make room for. Through a core crip interpretation of access practices being art forms and creative practices of joy and pleasure, not the tiresome mandate necessities rhetoric would incite, I decided to research how this was already being done within Alt texts. In my research I found Alt texts taken up by the disabled community as creative practices with alt text as poetry[^r7] by Bojana Coklyat and Finnegan Shannon. Here the share how these forms of access can be beautiful and emotive practices that in themselves make room for a diverse, creative and nuanced dialogues that take the image further than the capacities of its visual representation. From a more critical computing approach and with the *A platform report* of Hamaca's platform by TITiPI (Snelting et al., 2024), it also points out that within network practices alt texts also make room for those with low data speeds/limits/capacities to also be able to engage in the dialogue that the image represents. In these orientations I understand Alt texts as a crip network practice that open up the many ways that access frictions has made space not only for those with visual impairment, but also those disabled from network intimacies by infrastructural limits, geopolitical disparities and ableist network norms.

The stickers I made for this are a mix of 3D rendered shaggy clouds and text, made out to be fluffy and soft, with long hair coming off of them. I also use one found free license images. Some of these say a mixture of statements in the fluffy text like "Lets get cozy" and "The cloud is finite, Coziness is infinite". They are simple and fun and can slip into other dialogues and conversations whilst still holding their politics within their skeuomorphism. Others are more abstract like a cozy shaggy version of Arpanet, an early US military research network. The Alt texts that I wrote for them are made up of two to three sentences, each poetically setting scenes and forming figures and relations to imagine these intentions in action. These sticker and alt texts configuring out room form me to question how I wanted to orient away from the norms of militarised digital network infrastructures, to instead joyously retreat towards crip constellations of care. Each pair forming nonlinear promises of these intentions of crip access, affirmation and justice within network infrastructures.

When making these in 3D software I reflected on the other sticker packs that had come before, especially those that emerged around the work of *Volumetric Regimes* (Rocha and Snelting 2022) which questioned the norms of 3D practices and imaginaries. The *We have always been geohackers* (Pritchard et al. 2021) essay, which I work with closely in [03_Disobedient_Action_Research_Cycles](../../04_Disobedient_Action_Research_Cycles/03_Disobedient_Action_Research_Cycles.md), is a part of this book and shows the ways 3D space normalises extractive centralised perspective approaches. With these complexities weighing on me I turned to approaches of Cripping CGI (Decker, 2023; Saucedo & Decker, 2023) where bringing crip bodies and imaginaries in touch with 3D spaces and environments forms frictions around what bodies these technologies have imagined and made room for. Informed by this I began to make room for myself to work with 3D environments and practices to form alternative crip imaginaries and intentions for what this crip network infrastructures is oriented towards and what bodies/relations it wants to make room for.

[^r4]: https://signal.art/addstickers/\#pack\_id=1f930e15864f32d21ff3d4daeb5c34b8&pack\_key=7d3aed79d95f135c70350190b3911151ac782db547eafba6bf0d67f92b63ea3a
[^r5]: https://signal.art/addstickers/\#pack\_id=f998894a4595a1b4791a648f24e1e16d&pack\_key=6953c272698ffce39d7a32c0bbf2d040a46dfb3a66c800873d2d6ed649ba372d
[^r6]: https://signal.art/addstickers/\#pack\_id=6e69c3260e3c7378c0f35b86342e6f72&pack\_key=f6940570bf17201e7288874ced7e32098df100705dc7862af3c2c026b32a8f9a
[^r7]: https://alt-text-as-poetry.net/
