# A Cozier Configure-Able Methods


This chapter reflects on my inquiry into the coalescing of the Cozy-Cloud server as a crip and disability justice centred network infrastructure. This Inquiry moves on from the embedded intersectional collaboration with In-grid, which is covered in the [05_In-Configure-Ability](../../05_In-Configure-Ability/05_In-Configure-Ability.md), to instead orient these digital network infrastructures to be directly in touch with radical crip imaginaries, embodied knowledges, disorienting practices and indeterminate expertise. To do this I reflect on the work of the Cozy-Cloud through two creative outcomes and infrastructures. These take up this reseaches framing of crazed crip manifestos, to act as different manifestations of crip politics and practices embedded within network infrastructures through an interdependent troubling of the ableist and frictions norms. In doing this I aim to share how crip infrastructuring came into being and how these inquiries and their actions made room for my collaborators and I to imagine, figure out and feel the impacts of a cripped bodily horizons on network infrastructures.

With these crip network manifestings in focus, I reflect on it in 4 parts, again forming a [07.01_Background](07.01_Background.md) for this chapter and its figures to emerge from. I then focus in on my [07.02.00_Cozy_Intentions](07.02.00_Cozy_Intentions.md) for this crip server, orienting how I made space within alt texts, sticker packs, cozy pillows and websites to hold the non-linear intentions of the Cozy-Cloud, which oriente it towards life affirming network infrastructures. I follow this by reflecting on the [07.03.00_En-crip-ing_cozy_time](07.03.00_En-crip-ing_cozy_time.md), which was a collaboration between Mariana Marongoni and I on the Cozy-Cloud. With the server we manifested chronic cron jobs to poetically crip the servers computational clock and make room for a plurality of times. I finish this chapter by orienting to the future, of desires for more crazed crip infrastructural manifesting, ones that break the clock and disorient the sedimented axis of roles and expertise within these systems.

