## Background

The background of the cozy-cloud orients it between a few places and relations. In the [02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes](../../02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes/02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes.md) that parallels the literature review earlier in this thesis, and where I situate this research within my experience there are three points I will touch on again briefly. In [02.01_The_research_table](../../02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes/02_entries/02.01_The_research_table.md) I share the Cozy-Cloud's initiation during the residency with the XDFI, and this background of research normalises and fetishizes disabled bodies whilst also infantilising and invalidating them and their knowledges and expertise. In another tic there is also the [02.02_The_computing_table](../../02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes/02_entries/02.02_The_computing_table.md) that demonstrates the way the norms of institutionalised computational practices often invalidate or disappear crip lives and critical dialogues of access from their tables. I also share how in practice this orients the [02.03_The_operating_table](../../02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes/02_entries/02.03_The_operating_table.md) to be one where disabled bodies are treated without any capacity for care or affirmation by medical institutions. In the last tic presented here I turn to the [02.04_The_crip_table](../../02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes/02_entries/02.04_The_crip_table.md), where I came into contact with radical spaces run by M.E.L.T. and Healing Justice London (HJL) which made abundant room for crip politics, critical access and disabled bodies. There is also of course the work that sets up the methods I work with here, where I collaborated with others to critique configuring methods through critical access and emerge [04_Configure-Able_Methods](../../05_Configure-Able_Methods/04_Configure-Able_Methods.md). All of these points provide an orientation of retreat from institutionalised practices that extract from and invalidate crip lives before they begin how? Note , and to instead orient towards embodied interdependent crip abundance and life affirmation.

Moving in this orientation there are also more granular and nuanced points that informed me to do this. When working in many my collaborations work as a researcher and developer, I found an absence of crip and disabled politics, practices and dialogue. In some research and work contexts this sort of work was if anything closed down when I tried to share or make wiggle room to action it. If you read most crip studies or intersectional feminism, this is very much expected unfortunately. In the prior chapter's work and through intersectional collaborative research I have made room to trouble these silencing norms within collaborations I have the agency to. When reflecting on these experiences, I found that I had a deep desire to begin to orient exactly from what was missing in these backgrounds, or at least on their margins, and that of life affirmation, critical access and radical crip politics. Of course there are many existing radical disabled networks online, from Alice Wong's *Disability Visibility Project* to those that Sins Invalid's Making Connections and Crip Bits (Kafai, 2021, p. 121-123), Kevin Gotkin + friends *Remote Access Party*[^a2] as well as HJL and Aiyana Goodfellow's _In Practice_[^60]. These spaces are just a few of the more well known names of many that are actioning representation not only for disability to be visible, but more importantly for disabled community to connect, share experiences and form dialogues together around their matters and experiences. These though seemed to feel out of reach for specifically this type of infrastructural practice for a few reasons. One being that most of these spaces are not specifically oriented towards cripping technology, and in many ways to keep their online spaces accessible to their communities, they had to work with big tech platforms such Facebook, Zoom and Google. Much like I share in the [05.02.01_Inquiring into Access-Knowled as configuration](../../05_Configure-Able_Methods/05_entries/05.02.01_Inquiring%20into%20Access-Knowled%20as%20configuration.md), this is due to most Free Libre Open-Source Software (FLOSS) not having accessible functionality prioritised, but also how the technical configure-ability and expertise of FLOSS is figured as something only a small section of people (super users) can really come into contact with. Things have drastically escalated in recent years around the disabling roles that big tech play within society though, from the ways state institutions are wholesale outsourcing their infrastructures and organisational capacities to these private companies that then hold them out of reach of them (Gürses et al. 2022), to the ways that at the same time these companies are being declared by the UN as being complicit within genocide for using the same organisational digital infrastructures (Albanese 2025). Here deeply embedding and militarising our public infrastructures, whilst taking them out of reach so we do not have the capacity or agency to change these relations. For me this is a point where I desired to make room for this contact to happen, and actioned the Cozy-Cloud as a place to wiggle room for the crip community to move towards the promise of a cripped cloud. This is one where we are not only the experts of our own network and community infrastructures, but in this have the capacity to imagine and practice them through critical access and life affirmation. This crip desire both stemming from that of Ahmed's queer desire that makes room for us between determined paths, roles, figures, and relations, but also that of a radical crip desire that overflows from indeterminate and infinite bodily horizons which disorienting these messy technical relations when they are in touch and make their impact on them.

When I started to inquire into disabled coding community spaces I found none really within my reach, which is maybe a sign of my research ability and shyness, but also maybe of how few there are. The only thing I found was one disabled coder asking on a stackoverflow, if there was a space to share disabled coding experiences, as they tried to survive hiding their disability from their employer[^a3]. This as well as my own realisation that I also knew very few other disabled coders, prompted me this desire to try and make room for crips to gather, practice and make our impact on network infrastructures. To do this I wanted to make room with the Cozy-Cloud to build up a community and move towards that which was not yet in reach. 


[^a2]: https://www.criticaldesignlab.com/project/remote-access-party
[^a3]: https://dev.to/ehelaya/coders-with-disability-3jkh
[^60]: https://healingjusticeldn.org/in-practice-archive/