## Cozy intentions

This first manifesting of the server explores its initiation and intentions. This part of the Cozy-Cloud's development is very much set in the background of the residency at the BDFI. For this, I had originally been inspired by Kevin Gotkin's _Artists in president_ speech (2021), and so had desired to manifest radical cozy crip politics with and for network infrastructures. To do this I planned to set up an autonomous (movable) sever for hosting resources/infrastructures by and for a crip community. Here I worked with the VPN (Tinc) setup I had learnt from being in touch with the Servpub project to configured the server so that it could be autonomous and roaming. I did this so that it could move around and be installed as a crip cozy relaxation space at events, making room to manifest accessible embodied crip cloud imaginaries, knowledges and expertise as it goes.

Throughout this residency period, and as I have mention in the [02.01_The_research_table](../../02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes/02_entries/02.01_The_research_table.md), it was a lot harder to work within this institution and research group than I anticipated. This led me to retreat from my original plan for this exhibition, and instead of trying to form a disabled community within these inflexible relations, I started to orient to manifesting accessible intentions for the crip infrastructure I was manifesting. In this I was thinking about how to make accessible the background that I was emerging this other figure of a Cozy-Cloud from, and its crip promise of access and affirmation. Here I am thinking with how Loiuse Amoore (2020), which I touch on more in [05.02.02_Cripping Configuration](../../05_Configure-Able_Methods/05_entries/05.02.02_Cripping%20Configuration.md), as well as Matt Spencer (2022) ask for other relations and backgrounds for the cloud to be made knowable and Configure-Able through. Here I am moving with this by making room for these crip embodied relations to cozily encounter and make an impact on this server. In doing so making room for them to form local counter figures and imaginaries of a crip cloud, disorient these infrastructures knowledges and expertise through the situated plurality of a cozy crip community.

