### en-crip-ing time

Mariana and I started out talking playfully about encrypting and cripping being similar, both in sounds of the words, but more importantly here, by the way it can represent the intimacy needed for people to get to know each others nuanced access needs. With this we were thinking with Mia Mingus' (Mingus, 2017) access intimacy as a way to orient how these relations take time and need room to be become knownable, they cannot just be un-encrypted by anyone just like that. With this in focus Mariana came out with the first draft of a shell script that could represent this relation algorithmically, going through a text doc holding a poem of crip times we wrote and encrypting it line by line with our intentions as keys and a preformative en-crip-ing of these poetic crip times. 

From here we turned to another play on the technical language of computer systems and their maintenance protocols. Here we reconfigured the cron job, a way of calling routine maintenance scripts on unix systems, as a chronic jobs, an indeterminate intimate practice of maintenance and care. Through this intervention we questioned the materiality of these norms of standardised unix time and started to imagine in two places how we could en-crip these computed times. On approach was of how we can hack the existing standardised and pre-figured clock to wiggle room for a crip computational infrastructures now! The other approach questioning the limits of this computational clock, thinking through what it can imagine and make time for, but also how this infinite imaginary of computed time has limits, and ones we imagined crip futures not only within, but also beyond.

To en-crip the Unix clock here and now, we hacked these chronic cron jobs to be very disobedient and do things which they were never imagined to do by their deterministic norms. Cron jobs are "always deterministically on time and up to date"(Simms & Marangoni, 2025 ) but we hacked their code to make room for them to be "somehow both late, early and on time"(ibid.). We did this through the cron job code quoted from our essay below, working with computational poetics to form wiggle room in the variability of what these maintenance protocols do, and the bodies, times and horizons they are imagined to hold. From these frictions we felt within these maintenance protocols we disoriented them through our crip expertise. From these points of impact we cripped what these network infrastructures have capacity for when we interdependently care for their limits and constraints.

> \"So, when our chronic job declares
> 
> \* * * * * sleep $[RANDOM\%69]m ; /home/cozy/chronic/job.sh
> 
> it's saying:
>
> \* = All the time and indefinite\
> sleep = Rest as a valid (in)activity\
> RANDOM = Indeterminacy\
> 69 = Interdependence, desire and pleasure\
> /home/cozy/chronic/job.sh = Chronic care\" (Simms & Marangoni, 2025)

Through crip en-coding an indefinite indeterminate intimate and restful hack of a chronic cron job to the computational clock of the Cozy-Cloud we poetically cripped its chrononormative[^610] relations here and now. This low level crip infrastructuring being the first on the Cozy-Cloud server, and in many ways crips the background for what can be made here.

This cripping of computational intimacies is also en-coded through the "cozy/chronic/job.sh" script which is a modified version of the original shell script Mariana proposed. It still went through the poem of crip times, en-crip-ing and de-crip-ing it line by line, but to chronic this job we made it indeterminate, indefinite and non-linear. To do this we programmed it to chose a random line to en-crip or de-crip, indeterminate, which made room for it to go on forever, indefinite, and making a relationship where you have to come back repeatedly with care to get to know it, intimate. Here orienting this poetic crip infrastructure to en-cripped these network norms and bring readers  in contact with radical practices and relations of crip time and care.

Towards the end of the essay Mariana and I oriented to reflect on the second cripping of the unix clock, and caring beyond its limits. This was as Mariana raised, this clock is nearing its determined bit limit and end of unix time in 2036. With this we made wiggle room to imagine a pluriverse[^611] of crip computational clocks that can start to approach networks that de-centre and relinquish control of "what should happen on time"(Kafer 2013). With this imaginary we welcomed a future abundant with the indefinite and indeterminate times we need to wiggle within the futures of these network infrastructures norms for crip futures to exist.

[^610]: "these temporal and structural norms I have called chrononormativity: causality, sequence, forward-moving agency, and so on" (Freeman 2010)
[^611]: "Arturo Escobar's Pluriversal Politics (2020) engages with the «politics of the possible,» exploring how dominant worldviews limit the imagination of radically different futures that would truly bring forth an epistemic transformation. His work does not inscribe specifics as his arguments are in the realm of the unknown, the not yet reached." (Simms & Marangoni, 2025)
