## Futures x Desires

It is hard to say a lot in reflection when the Cozy-Cloud still has so much going on in the present and planned for the future. I can say though that as this cozier looking cloud comes into reach on my horizon, it is starting to feel a lil more snug. These projects have oriented the initial configure-able actions of the Cozy-Cloud, that of making wiggle room within network infrastructures norm for life affirming crip network infrastructures to emerge actions of critical access. In this orientation I have shares how collaborators and I have tried to crip network infrastructuring practices through the embodied frictions we felt when being in contact with them. This has been by both cripping the social and technical relations of these network infrastructures through inquiring into how the sediment limits and contours of these practices made room for our bodily horizons in practice, or not. From these points of impact and friction we made room for us to develop conceptual and critical infrastructures that  disorient this misfitting background's figures, relations, politics and times right now. 

This inquiry into a configure-able Cozy-Cloud has, as I have shared in this chapter, manifested a few outcomes. Firstly a Crip feeling and figuring out as method, here orienting retreating from institutional norms, but in doing so questioning how and caring for what radical imaginaries we bring into contact with these institutions when we do. Here with the retreat as crip manifestation, acknowledging that we can never really escape these institutions, even when you leave like Ahmed(2016). In this retreat though, like Ahmed, we thought about what we surfaced, how we de-sediment these lines and brought Crip/marginalized issues onto the bodily horizon of both computing and academia. More importantly though is also that we gained agency over on our own bodily horizons, getting to become intimate and well within reach of our infrastructures. With this aiming to de-center the expertise within roles to gain flexibility within our actions, intentions, and futures.

Now orienting into the present and these futures, the Cozy-Cloud is slowly building up a community of members at a gentle pace. In this orientation we are now focused on how to make it accessible to a wider disability community as well as working out protocols to work together. Technically this has been enacted by re-doing the website to make it a little less technically fritcious, more accessible and multi-user friendly, by moving it to Bludit CMS[^641]. This has a combination of flexibility for users, as well as good documentation, and being relatively lightweight/low energy both for the server and receiver. To build this up I also designed a custom theme for it called [Cozy_Night+Day](../../08_Artworks/Cozy-Cloud/Cozy_Night+Day/Cozy_Night+Day.md), that not only very light weight and has a cozy light and dark mode, but more importantly is encoded to automatically pick up text with an easy reader to make it even more accessible. We have also opened up for collaborations on the server through a form for crip community to host websites, infrastructures and services for free on the server. From a social side this for me has been a lot of slowing down, having patience and not feeling my "normative" webdev and super user urges to manage situations and prescribe problems, and instead orient to making wiggle room for one another to be experts, and reassuring each other that this is fine to take our sweet crip ass time to gently move towards these futures of life affirming accessible network infrastructures.

As we build up towards the future together slowly, asynchronously, all over the place but also together right now, I am very content to keep orienting towards crip coziness. Here making room to work independently through the frictions we feel when being together within these technologies.  Manifesting Coziness not only as a practice to care for the frictions of the day, but also as a promise and a destination at the end of many long days, weeks, years and life-times.

[^641]: https://www.bludit.com/