### Queering the axis

To queer this sedimented straightening axis, Ahmed starts by tracing the etymology of "queer". Queer in a spatial context means a twist in space, and when we combine this with definitions of sexual orientation, it poses a bent, deviant or crooked sexuality. Ahmed starts to queer the straight line to make wiggle room to thinking about how to approach relations on this horizon. If we are to move straight towards an object, as a singular other from determinate positions, then we can only take a straight path towards it[^x8]. She demonstrates this at the dining table where one man sits opposite one woman. This emerges into the family table where we have set sides and positions. Ahmed shows how this line straightens out a queer or crooked one by pushing us to choose one side of the table. Ahmed questions how the queer line is portrayed as oblique when held against the straight line, even posing that the straight line needs the queer one against which to appear comparatively straight. Ahmed reorients this idea through her figure of the "contingent lesbian" (Ibid, 92), which queers Freud's notion of a "contingent introvert", who positions queerness as a lack of finding a partner of the other sex, and so turns to her own by default. Ahmed inverts this relation to position straightness as contingent, and sees lesbians not as defaulting to queerness in the lack of a suitable person of the other sex, but defaulting to straightness and the other sex when the familial line and sedimented straight norms put queer bodies out of reach. Here she is thinking about this not as a "coming out" as queer or lesbian but as "coming to" queerness through desire. This reorients these relations towards queer desire and away from the "requirement" of a straight line. This makes room for me to understand how I approach the world along my own crooked or deviant lines that take me towards different people, communities, relations and in doing so shape my body and sediment my own paths.

Key to this critique is a queer reading of Merleau-Ponty's "sensitive body"[^x9] where Ahmed reflects on how inhabiting space produces a space to be inhabited. For example, a soft bottom creates a softer seat, that creates a softer bottom and softer seat. This concept is used to figure how a queer twist in the straight line of inheritance is itself conducive to forming a line that has room and capacity to be twisted. To think this through, she takes up the butch-femme dynamic of lesbian relations, and critiques not only the hetero perception of needing sexual difference or an opposite to attract but also queer critiques like Joan Nestle's "phony heterosexual replicas" that mimic this. With the help of Judith Butler she poses that the real need here is to question the necessity for difference in queer attraction, of the "requirements" of desire and relations. Ahmed instead positions these roles as performances as "erotic possibilities that can generate new lines of desire only when they are just that: possibilities rather than requirements" (Ibid, 99). In doing this she is opening up the possibility for bodies to not be determined by set relations but to be things to be desired, pursued, subverted and felt out. In this move she plays on lesbian fictions of Butch-Butch relations within Leslie Feinberg's *Stone Butch Blues* as well as Lee Lynch's *The Swashbuckler*, to show the comical navigation of desire of self within lesbian culture. She turns here though to state that these performed lines and bodily horizons of butch-femme are not illegitimate, but cautions against drawing "a dividing line" that can in itself "make other forms of sexual desire unlivable"(Ibid, 99). In this research, I have been playing with these ideas around queer relations in the context of wider intimacies, from how roles such as users and experts are performed with digital network infrastructures, to the emerging of indeterminate collaborative and collective desires.

Ahmed takes Merleau-Ponty\'s notion of the "sensitive body" to discuss how this "coming to" queerness shapes and forms our bodies through being in relation with and touching other queer bodies. She explains how being oriented towards other women doesn't just shape our sexuality, but also what other objects are reachable on our horizon. She shares how queer and lesbian desires move us sideways, taking us to different associations and connections that are often invisible to others. As I follow my own queer path she encourages the refusal of this straightening up, to not look back or reorient ourselves to/around straight heckles, however offensive they are, and to instead orient towards my own queer promise. This queering of the axis is to stay disoriented, to orient into possibilities that straight lines could never map, and to touch and hold our bodies in our own economies. A queer axis is one where the horizontal and vertical lines of inheritance don't always "line up", can be "off line", and challenge the sedimentations that hold me in place, force me to one side and keep me out of reach of me needs and desires.

Removing the "holding" things in place, in this research when I move this metaphorical tracing paper to other tables and relations; the grooves in these different tables inducing a queering that animates these sedimented lines to be drawn otherwise. This means that if I take a seat at institutional tables as a crip and queer[^x10], even if it isn't orientated, approachable or stable to me, I am mutually affecting it. It means that when I bring myself, my thoughts and research to other queer tables, of coalition and of crip care, I can be comfy in our shared disorientation at hegemonic tables. The research I am doing gets slanted with my body to my other queerer axes. When I come to institutional tables along these queer axes, I take them off balance, grasping at them and nudging them to an orientation I need. This is a very queer dance that begins to happen when I refuse to be held in place, or hold other things out of place. I start to be able to be flexible in how I orient myself, begin to be able to feel my needs and to form tables and relations of affinity that feel mutual, constitutive and affective.

[^x8]: "The straight line would be that which moves without any deviation toward the"point\" of heterosexual union or sexual coupling: any acts that postpone the heterosexual union are perverse, which thus includes heterosexual practices that are not "aimed" toward penetration of the vagina by the penis"(Ahmed 2006, 78)
[^x9]: "*At the same time that we acknowledge this risk of universalism, we could queer Merleau-Ponty's ''sensitive body,'' or even suggest that such a body is already queer in its sensitivity ''to all the rest.'' Merleau-Ponty's model of sexuality as a* *form of bodily projection might help show how orientations ''exceed'' the objects they are directed toward, becoming ways of inhabiting and coexisting in the world."* (Ahmed 2006, 67)
[^x10]: If we have the capacity to.
