### Transdisciplinary practice

Moving from a queer axis this research sits at the intersections of a number of disciplines, so I find it important to reflect on Ahmed's thoughts around transdisciplinary practice. In queering the axis and the paths I take, I can think through what it means to not always know the path, to get lost and connect things that aren't together when they are held in place by sedimented norms. For Ahmed, potential naivety around the proper way of doing things is a place of production where queer lines are drawn and other paths are made. This means that there is great strength in holding on to these institutional tables, however much they may try to throw you off, or move apart. By being there, and by making wiggle room[^x11], wiggling tables together and apart, I create the room I need to move towards the queer lines and modes of orientation that I desire. This room to breathe offer me the capacity to touch, feel out and imagine what my needs are and what paths may make these possible. Where do I have to move to be in reach of these needs and desires? Through transdisciplinarity I have the agency to imagine and practice what combinations of lines, what muddling of methods and disassociation of discipline makes the room for the change I need now. Much like Ahmed's navigation of butch-femme dynamics, transdisciplinarity is not meant to de-legitimise disciplinary fields or sedimented relations, but is meant to approach them as performances of knowledge and practices. Orienting disciplines in this way means that I can start to make room for what was once "unlivable" in disciplines' inherited terms. Again, this approach in its disobedience doesn't outright discredit the disciplines it works with but asks how their performed orientations may cross and transpose one another, what that could put in reach, and how making disciplines touch in other ways reshapes the bodily horizons of the disciplines themselves. This moves the focus from boundaries to orientations and how I can trace situated queer paths between disciplinary lines for myself. In this research, I bring together and move across fields of queer feminism, crip theory, critical access, disability justice, STS, media studies, information studies, artistic/creative practice, and software studies, to ask how a crip network and collective organisational practices can be made live-able between the institutions of computing and academia that systematically invalidate disabled queer lives.

[^x11]: "Sometimes that is what we struggle for: wiggle room; to have spaces to breathe. With breath, comes imagination. With breath, comes possibility. We might in spilling out of the rooms we have been assigned, in our struggle with an assignment, mess things up." wiggle room blog post
