## Ethical considerations

In taking on this research and inquiry their of course have been many ethical relations to address. In my practice of ethics I have also queried these norms of the institutional forms of ethics, both in the ways they navigate ethics, but also how they template it for me to fill in. In this research this had been enacted by doing more traditional ethics forms for the [[06.03.02.00_Configure-ability_In-Workshops]] and the [[06.02.00_Processing In-Configure-ability]] focus groups I have taken on, making sure they know what the research is, sign to consent, and have the ability to remove consent. In following these norms of course I have found friction along my Crip axis. One of places I have found friction is with the mandatory use of both ZOOM and Outlook, as being the ethical secure spaces for this research. This is because they are able to "stably" provide a service which fits to the tick-box regulations of GDPR, even with their fluctuating terms (Rob Pegoraro, 2023), and in doing so secure the stability of institutional contracts. Why I find friction is that Big tech models and tick-box economies that this research is trying to wiggle around, and so being forced to use them seems slightly unethical, and undermining. The unethical aspect also accentuated by the scales of these cloud economies, of the politics these infrastructures enforce when you use them, and the inability to orient otherwise in the inflexible hard systems. 

This was particularly true when it came to how to document my working together with others, both in workshops and focus groups. Here instead of orienting towards these infrastructures which in many ways reinforce research as surveillance, where we document exact words in time, hold people to them and orient arguments from them, I disoriented to forming collective notes, of taking time to care for what people wanted to say and to manifesting an inquiry together. This move for me not only ethically changes how we engage with the communities we work with and the infrastructures we meet them with, retreating from surveillance norms, but also as a researcher with fatigue it has reduced my labour hugely. This reduction in labour also making the research itself more ethical for me to take, and also opening up critique around what we might have capacity for in research, if we are not trying to hold these people and their words in place. It also orients to the critique that runs throughout this research, that representation and assimilation in sedimented technologies and their naturalised ethics isn't always that ethical, and we can find other disobedient ways to disorient these relations to our own crip and queer axes, desires and needs.

This retreat from a particular type of individualised practise of research and ethics is highlighted in the way I have been undertaking my First Person Action Research. Here much like Marshall (Marshall, 2004), I have initiated focus groups with those I have inquired into working with. These have been enacted through a-synchronous collective reflections, based through my drafted inquiries and signal chat (groups), and where I invited feedback from others and room for them to add their own perspective. Orienting towards this direction has brought much joy into this research, as I reflect back with collaborators and companions on our times together, of how it has emerged into compounding reflections and unfolding actions. This felt quite vulnerable for me to do, and I definitely delayed and anxiously avoided it for a while, but it has also added much more depth to my research and made room for me reconsider my normalised and sedimented paths toward these inquiries. 


