# Disobedient Action Research Cycles 

This chapter follows on from the framing of the last two chapters to discuss how I have formed a methodology for this research project. The methodology I have taken up is a situated implementation of disobedient action research. This disobedience and its foundations of action research follows the many crip and queer figures that were called on in the last chapter, and especially within [01.02.04_Cripping_Technoscience](../../01_Disability_justice_and_life_affirmation_flipping_the_table/01_entries/01.02.04_Cripping_Technoscience.md), where it demands to step out of line, to find other routes that institutional inflexibilities do not have the capacity for and to defiantly take those actions now.

In this move to shake off the the academic table of methods that holds us in-line, I turned to action research as a place to empower the position of practitioners (in this case collaborators and I) as a knowledge creators. This methodology approaches these experiences by giving depth and insight to relations where an embodied framing makes room for it to be understood in action, from a situated perspective and knowledge. I then move to orient this methodology through first person action research, where I bring in the background of my research and to make room within it for a situated embodiment of these inquiries. From this position and that of my crip framing, I felt this research necessitates a disobedient approach, one that manifests a disorientation of the scope and norms of the actions within action research. It poses this work to take on direct actions together right now! Of refusing to be a part of, assimilate to and be quiet about certain politics and their violent relations!

After this setting up of a disobedient action research methodology I go on to discuss how I have taken up this methodology in three (ish) cycles of action and reflection, and how they have been approached at different intersections of social and technical infrastructures within and around institutions.

