## Why not other Action Research?

It is of course sensible to ask, and for me to reason why I have decided on First Person Action Research instead of other modes of AR. This is specifically true when it comes to Crip studies where the sedimented path into action research would be through participatory research. A quality example of this, and similarly to my research is the blurring of the lines of community and institution is Laura J. Wernick's *Learning Disability Justice through Critical Participatory Action Research* (2023). With this work she focuses on the notion of participatory to surface the ways that disabled interdependence is what has made her research happen. She also reflects on these exchanges in a very embodied, vulnerable and situated approach that a Crip studies approach encourages. This embodied mode being one that also crosses heavily into First Person Action Research. In my research I have similarly manifested it through these Crip support networks, through interdependence and from community, and I definitely do not want to underplay their participation in this work. I do though chose to orient towards First Person Action Research as I want to focus not so much on disabled people participating in the institutional norms or within disabled exclusive space, but instead towards how crip people as active change makers can transform the more intersectional organisations, institutions and systems around us. In this move putting pressure on, making friction with and giving feedback to the ableist institutions and relations we are in-touch with. This again isn't to say that the work like Wernick's that practice Participatory AR methods are not in reach of this change on their bodily horizon, but it is to instead orient towards this, and see how this imposition can change relations and politics around us.

