## The research table

In this section I will talk about experiences of being a Crip in an academic institution in the U.K., and practising within the norms of these research institutes. There are many examples of this within Crip texts, for instance, Margaret Price's *Mad at School* (2011), but my experiences and tics are contextually specific and form an embodied foundation for this work, the conditions it emerges from and aims to address. I trace the very queer lines of bumping into, running away from, and figuring out what feel like more cozy boundaries in relation to academic institutions. If I return to Ahmed's brief reflection on repetitive strain injury (RSI), how do these paths, these desks and inherited orientations of work determine us to be broken before we even start? In exploring these examples, I aim to open up how academic practices and imaginaries of futures do not imagine us there before we even begin, and in response we need to make lots of Crip trouble so that we can wiggle ourselves in.

Accessibility in institutional terms can prevent disabled researchers from being present at the table. For example, at a major science and technology studies conference in 2024, accessibility was reframed, in practice, to mean early career researchers but not disabled people or other intersections of marginalised international communities either. This was enacted through the logic of cutting costs on hybrid access to fund early career researchers. In cutting the hybrid accessibility to the event, disabled people who find it hard to access in person could not easily be in dialogue, but also those with limited access due to geopolitics and border regimes could not be present either. This left some panels with a fraction of their speakers, falling short of being accessible to these broader intersections of un-imagined communities. The conference also had an inclusive set of food tokens for the event, but with my dietaries I could not make use of most of them so ended up paying for my own food on top as well. These everyday examples of inaccessibility in academic spaces and institutional norm build up to larger, sometimes exhausting, patterns that make these spaces unlivable for many.

From here, I want to attend in more depth to how academic institutions reproduce what Kafer describes as Crip-less futures. Specifically, I am going to discuss a project in which I wanted to imagine with Crip bodies what a future might be. In this experience I realised that academic institutions often can't feel this Crip stuff in their framings of accessibility, as they keep it at the edge of their reach, with no capacity of being intimate. I was told many times what accessibility is by able bodied people in these institutes, prescribed roles I must follow and spaces and times I must fit to, often with my frictions, labours and issues being hidden from view or easily packaged and moved. In this reflection I share where and how I have taken care of my bodymind and this Crip stuff, in order to speak up to and reorient the institution's deterministic ableist configurations of futures.

I applied for a residency with a major research facility, let's call them X - Digital Future Institute (or X-DFI). In placing the X here I retain partial anonymity, but also refer to SoLiXG's definition of XG[^q1], denoting the infinite growth of digital institutions, infrstructures, and imaginaries. In SoLiXG's case this is the power of big tech network and cloud "solutions", and in mine the ever-prevailing ableist institutes of digital futures that will never imagine or be able to hold Crips in their "infinite" futures.

I originally applied to this residency with the concept of making a crip infrastructure in the form of a server accompanied by a relaxation space. I explained clearly in my application that it was an infrastructure made by and for disabled people that also included a chill space for disabled people to decompress and relax. I expressed clearly my desire that the online space and IRL installation were for crips to have a safe and calm space to collectively imagine what crip futures and practices online might look like. They accepted the project, I was relieved as I could get paid to do some of my own work, and relax about financial stresses. In the first meeting they told me they were chose me because they liked that it was Crip stuff.

I was appointed a "mentor" who I met up with briefly. We began to chat about the project and work, I discussed for minimum five minutes ideas of creating infrastructures through non-prescriptive methods. He told me he was the method man, he loved methods and it would be great if I could generalise these methods. I didn't feel heard. I carried on talking about network infrastructures, about alternative imaginaries of care around their limits, from a Crip interdependent approach. He said he didn't understand.

In the meetings following, the mentor repeatedly questioned the validity of the project and my ability and capacity to make it, instead of caring for its growth. He asked whether a relaxation space was a valid artwork. I tell him there have been many works, by crip artists and others, such as Carmen Papalia's *Pain Pals*[^q2], Navild Acosta and Sosa's *Black Power Naps*[^q3] and M.E.L.T.'s *Rest Assured*[^q4] that orient this approach. Each of them talk about different groups needing space to stop from the incessant efficiencies of late capitalism, to sit in and make their own times and to feel safe. It still didn't seem to be valid to him. He again questioned my capacity to make the digital infrastructure, whether I was able to do what I knew I could do (and had done before). Over email, they asked for quantities: , how long the work would be up, how much community I expected? Repeatedly I had to explain what it was, how I was going to make it. Every time, he exclaimed he didn't understand the theory or the practice, and asked for validity again. There was no trust or affirmation of this Crip infrastructure.

Initially my "mentor" told me verbally that the fee was just for me as payment, and they would cover materials and expenses. I was already putting more work into this infrastructure than the fee entailed, as I cared for this stuff. When it came time to get materials, I sent through expenses, and waited. This was during the period where the validity was being doubted (which was realistically the whole time). I had to send through renders to visualise to them what it might be, and costings of materials which took more care and more time. I waited. I emailed to follow up. I waited. The time of the project stood still, Crip infrastructure frozen in-validity. They replied. The cost of the materials now had to come from my fee, unless they were of value and could be used by the X-DFI in the institution's futures. I told them that this was not okay. A while later they offered a small sum, but I still had to pay the majority for the proposed work. This dialogue froze the project for at least a month, as I could not start until I had the small amount of stuff I needed to care for the work. The fee itself then also got frozen so I had to pay out of my pocket to get going. Due to "institutional" delays the payment time had become indefinite, postponed to an unknown date. Due to these delays, I had even less time to care for this stuff.

They delayed the submission a bit, but the damage was already done. I did not really trust, through their actions, that this was a place that could hold Crips, or imagined them being here in this X - Digital Future Institute. There was no flexibility in this hard institute for Crips there. The mentorship could not flex to understand, acknowledge or listen to Crip methods, practices and knowledges, and instead turned me into the problem that needed to be cured. Instead of making space for and affirming these imaginaries, however haphazard they might have seemed, they chose to judge it repeatedly, not finding it valid in their terms. Their terms seemed to infantilize what they thought Crips had capacity for, repeatedly asking me to just make something soft for stimming, easily packaged and handled for when they present it to conferences. They didn't want to handle an awkward Crip body or infrastructure. The change of terms to finances also reduced my trust greatly, as it showed they did not understand or legitimise financial accessibility as a barrier, and that their word was not stable. Due to the payment delays, funding changes and my financial precarity I had to take on another job at the same time, developing an app for another research project. This change of terms, and the eddies that flowed in its trail are additive to the stress and relations that caused my last flare up, and why I ended up back on the operating table I mention in the next section.

After these initial fallouts, I just kept myself to myself and made the infrastructure on the cheap. Though I in many ways had lost faith in this residency, I carried on mainly for the funding and to make my this crip infrastructure "against all odds". So I decided to approah the work as a prototype of what Crip infrastructures might feel like. Using the technical setup I had already knew and developed, but leaving the community out of it whilst the X-DFI voices were still involved. I accompanied this with some cute stickers I rendered and wrote their Alt texts as Crip imaginaries of caring with and for digital network infrastructures. I go on to talk about this infrastructure more in the A Cozier Configure-ability chapter, but in this relation and on top of all the other things I had going on I didn't have the capacity to get them to listen to the nuances of this change or its reasons, so I just didn't communicate it with them.

The first payment came through as we were getting ready to display, months late. The accessibility of the space had been miscommunicated, stating there was a lift, then there wasn't one, and then there was, which made me anxious about showing there. It turned out it was fine. In preparation for the show, they began quantifying again, asking questions like, what\'s the maximum time for a person to relax in the space? They didn't seem to feel time slots undermined crip relaxation or politics. They repeatedly tried to put the work in a small single occupancy tipi, to shade disabled people from the light, and maybe hide us away? It also seemed culturally inappropriate to display my work in, as a white British artist.

When it came to the time to show the work, even though we had been promised all along that this would be open to the public, and my application explicitly said the work was for the disabled community, they had not listened and it turned out it was just for a private event for the investors of this new building. It was for an event so private that even we the artists were not invited to it. They used this exhibition as the signing off of the works, and again used it to pressure me into buying my own train tickets and paying for my own expenses to set up the work. By this point, I couldn't be bothered to argue against this.

I pitched up to the X-DFI, and was the first one there. I had a nice chat with the receptionist and he offered me a cozy cup of tea. I waited next to a wall of tech company logos. They turned up. We had a tour of the X-DFI, with its brand new facilities in digital twin technology, still half built, with cables and tubes hanging down. It looked expensive, the jewel in the crown of this digital future. I told them it was a dual use technology. They asked what that was. I told them it meant it was made specifically to have both military and commercial uses. They looked surprised. We went upstairs to the open loft space. They had snacks that I couldn't really eat. Luckily, I always bring my own.

I started to set up the work, I chose a nice side with good plugs and ports. I got the server connected fine, and the site was up. I pulled out the soft cushy cloud pillows I had made with a collaborator. They looked surprised I had stuff. I placed the easy read, take home text of the cozy intentions on the table. It was installed, it was a very easy setup.

Soon after though, they came with stuff. Stuff they wanted to stuff in. I hadn't been told about or consented to this stuff. They brought a weighted blanket, which was nice, but was definitely prescribed, and was for the institution and not for the Cozy-Cloud. Play-dough and colouring in bits, that didn't really fit in and seemed to infantilize disabled people. All of this stuff brought and placed in the space without real dialogue or care. They stepped back, and asked again how accessible the space really is, it seems a little technical for \"disabled" people and for people from the "street". I told them to access the work you just have to try and relax. They didn't. I asked them who the people categorised and figured to be from the street were? I explained I was creating social access to technical practices and processes which in some places of course will be a little technical, but I am trying to make it as accessible as possible. He asked to edit the cozy intentions of the server. I said no. He asked if he was not woke enough. I said I don't think you have the right lived experience to edit a text by and for disabled people. He eventually left me alone.

After they had taken their photo op, where I masked a smile, I left my Crip centred space to be shown to the rich investors of this institute, and we went for dinner. We went to a restaurant where they had tried to make it accessible but it still wasn't great for me. I didn't want to cause trouble again so just went anyway. We ate some dinner, I dared to have one dish and we chatted. My "mentor" complained about how much free work and excessive stuff he had to do to get anywhere in his career and how much he felt he suffered. I thought he should value and care for his time and capacity more. I chatted to other people around the table. When we were finishing up, he got the whole table's attention and said, "I really don't think artists suffer enough to make good work anymore". I stopped. I leaned forward, and I said, "As someone who lives with chronic pain, I really don't think any value should be placed on suffering". He suddenly and eventually went quiet. Later after dinner he sent me a text to apologise, I am not sure if he realised what these sedimented politics also meant for him, or if he had felt "caught out".

I couldn't touch that Crip server for a while after this experience. All of those intentions seemed sullied by this "mentorship" and exclusion from the futures of X institutes. The longer term eddies, the subsequent flare up, operations and appointments this experience and its stresses had contributed to meant that trying to make a crip infrastructure for and by crips for relaxation had in fact manifested itself into more crip pain, stress and struggle when in relation to an X Digital future of these institutions. Now, I am moving to care for these scars and tender, frictious relations, to re-orient the spaces I have capacity in so I can work within them cozily. In softer actions I have pulled out one of the Cozy-Cloud cushions and now sleep with it, dreaming of X-C/CFI (Crip/cozy future infrastructures) most nights. This experience is one that has made me care even more for where I table my Crip stuff. Are academic institutions able to, or do theyeven desire to hold this Crip stuff? Or will their values, politics, relations and orientations always hold it out of reach and disable them from caring for the stuff of Crip futures?

[^q1]: ""XG" is an industry term for anticipatory technological iteration that we in SoLiXG extend to capture the process of developing, expanding and maintaining digital infrastructures, always with an eye to the next generation. As the media scholar Wendy Chun points out, this process is never finished and constantly gestures towards the next update." - https://solixg.net/keywords/xg
[^q2]: https://leonardo.info/Criptech/eaat/pain-pals
[^q3]: https://www.moma.org/magazine/articles/842
[^q4]: https://www.sonicacts.com/archive/rest-assured
