## Dancing with tables

This research in many ways orients a certain dance between these separate, but overlapping institutional tables. In many ways this is framed as a retreat in this work, of trying to put the violences of certain tables out of reach, and orient them towards notions, politics and practices of radical crip life affirmation. In this retreat though, and through a Crip understanding of the cyborg, we are still attached to and entangled with them. Through being in relation with these institutional tables of computing, academia and care, I can also shape them in return. It is this refusal to stay in line and to give feedback where it is not wanted. It is when I come to the operating table and finally talking back to the "expertise" of my "specialist", not only to refuse medicine and advice that will harm me, but also asking if he had ever read any disability studies? When he said no, I said, "Don't you think it is interesting you have never listened to the people you care for?" It is when I come to the computing table and the student account interface and feel the normative urge to police them for their attendance, to instead ask myself, "How do I care for this person and to be an ally in their building of capacities?" It is now that I have my own capacity to sit at research tables and send emails telling people what my needs are, and defining good boundaries around them. It is me writing this research and making wiggle room for these reflections and inquiries that maybe give too much information, emotion and anger, but offer within that the capacity to hold these necessary points and times out of line so to disorient and manifest this work from.

In this dance I make many mistakes, I am clumsy, I am mad, I am Crip. In this dance I take just a few steps, a couple back, a number sideways. In this dance and between these tables, as I get to grips with them, as they try to shake me off, and as I try to hold on, I build my capacity to reorient them. The shaping effect that some have on me I also have on others, and it is within these frictions, flows, rhythms and moves that this research starts to manifest itself. Again, not through one point but a repetitive Crip-Tic and recursive practice of wiggling room within, between and around the capacities of these hard systems and institutes for our communities and their many tables to be cozily in relation.





