To conclude this thesis, I bring together these last three chapters, and with them coalesce together the tables of this has been present at, the figures felt at them and configurations manifested from them. I focus on how in these different localised manifestings of Configure-able methods we have started to hack and transform the roles, figures and norms that we have inherited from our existing network infrastructures. In doing this we have made wiggle room with the configuration practices of these infrastructures so they can be manifested together indeterminately when being contextually situated.

In the intersectional collaboration with In-grid these Configure-Able methods have been reflected on in multiple scales. In this inquiry with In-grid members we oriented towards querying our organisational infrastructures and practices through critical access. These included the  likes of our banking and internal politics, but also our network infrastructures and capacities to share their technical skills. Within this context of Configure-Able methods we focused on feeling out how critical access and politics of disability justice can radically reconfigure our imaginaries and approaches to collective organisation, server infrastructures, and their maintenance. In this collective practice we emerged our own counter figures and roles, moving from the determined limits of "users" and "servers", to make room for our own divergent roles of carer, maintainer, character, collaborator and/or persona. It this wiggle room making space for the flexibility of our roles/relations, and the complex knowledges, expertise and perspectives they each offer.

Within the collaboration of the Cozy-Cloud these Configure-Able methods have be surfaced of course through this manifesting of a cripped server, but also through the specific works that I have shared. These included making cozy intentions through design frictions, both making room within stickers for access alt texts, but also in thos alt texts room to question the materially violent hard systems and politics of network infrastructure. I also reflect on the first collaboration with the Cozy-Cloud with Marianna Marangoni where we criped the computational clock and the social relations of these crip infrastructures through poetic chronic jobs sharing intimate crip times.

These examples give shape to the capacity for wiggle room that Configure-Able methods can manifest within and around the inherited norms of our communities social and technical infrastructures. Through this research Configure-Able methods has emerged though these situated collaborations as a generative approach to reorient the narrative, roles and configurations that have been normalised within our network infrastructures through critical access methods such as design friction. This was done by making room to validate the frictions the different collaborations felt when in touch with configuring out these technologies. In this process of feeling frictions within these configurations forming counter figures and configurations from our own backgrounds, contexts and knowledges. These methods of course are still in practice, and I am excited to be writing this up and reflecting on how they have emerged differently within each context they have been localised to. This also brings with it the capacity for me within this research and to think forward to the futures this methodology is already unfolding within my own reach, no matter if it gets taken up by others.

Within In-grid we have already started to configure out our own use of Wireguard virtual private network (VPN) to care for the deprication of Tinc VPN. In this we are also already carrying on this Configure-Able methods of questioning the frictions we feel as we action this. This includes things like the naming of Wireguard, as again conflating privacy with security politics like I discuss in [05.03.01.02.02_In-Practice](../05_In-Configure-Ability/sections/05.03.01.02.02_In-Practice.md), as well as the ways it orients figures of efficiency and accessibility towards infinite growth. This configuring out of VPN and private safe network infrastructures is also an important action to put these collective infrastructures closer in reach of In-grid.

With NEoN Digital and their community partners, In-grid and I have been invited to practice these Configure-Able methods with them to manifest acommunity server funded by the Scottish Council for Voluntary Organisations (SCVO)[^1a] infrastructural funds. This project is just beginning but it will be interesting to practice these methods with a community that may be newer or bring more diverse backgrounds and frictions to these infrastructuring tables. Entering into this project In-grid is also starting to formulate and configure more accountable organisational practices, thinking back to the advice form Healing Justice London (HJL) at the _Life Affirming Organisation_ event around caring for clearer relations of power and responsibility.

With the Cozy-Cloud this collaboration is still very much in emergence and slowly becoming a pivoting point for more crip people to orient from and wiggle room on networks for us together. I have been gently building up this collaboration through inviting some more collaborators to be involved. In inviting people in taking our sweet crip ass time to be intimate and emerge Cozy relations to maintain this crip social and technical network infrastructures. Some of the more recent actions have been figuring out the protocols we need to communicate as well as the disobedient efficiencies we need to make room for us to have capacity to be together around/within institutional limits.

Beyond these different tables that I am moving towards, I hope these Configure-Able methods are also taken up by others to manifest them in their own contexts and through this hopefully troubling them too. By troubling I aim not for this to be a cure of a methodology, but for the it to be approached like Alison Kafer's faulty crazed manifesto (2023), or the Feminist Server Manifesto (2015) that I have taken up in this research. I hope that those who iterate and manifest Configure-Able methods in their own contexts locally also find generative capacities from the room it aims to make within the flaws and frictions to hack and disorient these social and technical systems to soften and flex to their bodily horizons.

[^1a]: https://scvo.scot/