### Crip Time + Crip Futures

> "Can we tell crip tales, crip time tales, with multiple befores and afters, proliferating befores and afters, all making more crip presents possible?" (Kafer 2021, 418)

One of the focuses of Kafer's *Feminist, Queer, Crip* and her wider research is her figuring out of crip time. Crip time is manifested by many different people in crip theory, from Ellen Samuel's *Six Ways of Looking at Crip Time* (2017), to Margaret Price's *Mad at School* (2011, p. 62) which offers generative affective definitions, to Kafer's *After Crip, Crip Afters* (2021) and David P. Terry's *Explanation not Excuse* (2016) that poetically describe crip times. *Prioritizing Crip Futures* (Abrams et al., 2024) and Sins Invalid's *Crip Kinship* of Sins Invalid (Kafai, 2021, p. 75) also offer crip time in action in institutional and crip collective contexts. Crip time here makes room for a paradoxical and non-linear temporality that aims to sit with disabled people's bodies and experiences on their terms instead of enforcing a normative able-bodied orientation of time[^r12]. In essence, crip time is the refusal of determinate, straight, evenly-paced timelines. I choose to build from Kafer's definitions because of her emphasis on the systemic and political relations of temporalities that freeze and hold crips and disabled folks in place, as well as the ways we can hack and form wiggle room within these dominant hegemonic times. Kafer builds up her definition through a few moves but starts by cripping Lee Edelman's queer time against the future (Kafer 2013, 28). Here she takes up the figure of the 'Child' as a symbol of the future that in queer theory is often also a symbol of the deterministic straight line of inheritance towards able straight futures[^r13]. The figure of the Child is also heavily bound to the histories of eugenics, which conflated disabled, racialised, poor and indigenous bodies into the categories "feeble-minded" or "defective", and used to justify forced sterilisation or euthanasia for the future of the "race" (Ibid, 30). The legacies of these eugenic logics persist in contemporary prenatal selection and abortion of disabled children to "solve" the problem before it starts, and which the UK has re-enitiated this year (Maia Davies 2025). This emphasis on the future reinforces the endless deferral of care for disabled folks, that instead of making room and capacity to care for them now, orients funding to cure society and futures of their disabled bodies. One example Kafer takes up is of Noam Ostrander's interviews with young black men in Chicago with violently acquired spinal cord injuries (Ibid, 33). She highlights this case as it not only shows how the violent relations through which these men became disabled are so sedimented that their disabling was treated as inevitable, but also that becoming disabled was a foreclosure on their life, and one that determined them to have no future. Here she is sharing how disability is imagined by ableism to have no future, and that to authoritarian eugenics logics, reinforced through race, class, sexuality, gender identity and more, determine disability as a category to forcibly place bodies that they do not want to see in the future.

In her book Kafer engages with the figure of the "Child" to disorient dialogues around disabled bodies that do not seem to fit in hegemonic futures. She does this by inquiring into both disabled peoples abilities to procreate more disabled bodies (children), as well as exploring the capacities disabled people have to procreate culture, social relations and intimacies. By doing so, she questions the hegemonic terms through which disability's futures are represented. She elaborates on this by studying both mainstream media narratives playing out these political imaginaries and contemporary social and technical infrastructures that reinforce these ableist politics systemically.

For example, Kafer reads Marge Piercy's *Woman on the Edge of Time*, and its legacy within feminist studies as a text that demonstrates "inclusivity" and political democracy within science (Ibid, 72). Through a crip lens, Kafer's analysis shows it is anything but inclusive or democratic. This Utopian world has in fact eradicated all disabled people without any mention or dialogue that included them. The fictive society is in many ways Utopian because it has eradicated disabled people through genetic science and technological advancement. The fictive infrastructure that has enabled this is called the brooder, which mixes and selects genes to form neutral healthy children of all races, but in doing so eradicates disabled bodies without question. In the same move it also blends and displaces race as a way to cure us of cultural difference and racial inequality. When held in comparison to the depicted Dystopia, which is filled with disabled and mad bodyminds, it shares how disabled people's existence here represents one of the main signifies of this utopian/dystopian split. Beyond the macro of this split, the only mention of disability in the utopia is of people taking mental health breaks, where they drop out from society. This in many ways still enacts the erasure of disability from society, put to one side, siloed and hidden from sight until normal or cured. Through Kafer's analysis she shows how neither the utopian nor dystopian futures make room for or imagine disabled people to live full lives, or affirm their experiences. In these futures disabled people are either the abundant problem or are silently cured from existence as part of the solution. In these narratives, disabled bodies, feelings and experiences are not included in the making of futures. In utopia, they have been invalidated and backgrounded at every step towards this "greater good".

In response I have shared how Kafer constructs a crip time that makes room to hold the affective, embodied and experiential relations to time that disabled bodies have the capacity to feel. This affective crip relation to time emerges through disabling relations to institutions, systems and infrastructures, or just how disabled bodyminds queerly move through and experience time and space[^r14]. Kafer presents many forms of crip time, from the slowing down and indefinite postponing of care, to the immediacy of when we need to care right now. Crip time takes the form of cycles of time that complicate the normative straight cycles of the able-bodied clock, and disables people from accessing in-flexible institutions, financial stability and self-determinacy.

Kafer aligns crip time with Jack Halberstam's discussion of queer time, in particular the "strange temporalities, imaginative life schedules, and eccentric economic practices" of queer life (Ibid, 35). For Halberstam,the immediacy of the AIDS crisis, specifically for gay men and their communities took them out of mainstream and normative time, to a time of "the here, the present, the now" (Ibid, 35). In crip contexts, Kafer describes a "falling time". Falling ill or getting a prognosis changes perceptions of time, shrinks futures and intensifies the present. When falling into depression, time is slowed to a stop, yet can fly by. How does time feel when there are uncertainties as to whether a chemical, food or unpredictable trigger could induce symptoms that will take you out of time? These fallings into "strange temporalities" leaves space for disabled people to feel these times as they are and not line-up to a straight and normative time, validating and enabling crip bodies to tell stories that can change how we think with time.

For "imaginative life schedules" Kafer brings to the forefront the ways that disabled people have to pre-plan and hack systems of care to be in reach of their needs. How partners and friends need to split carers and medicines, as systems have valued one over the other. How families and friends need to fill the gaps. How bathroom visits have to be pre-planned and scheduled. Kafer poses these "imaginative life schedules" not just as the extenuated day to day planning that most disabled people take on, but as the need to project crip bodies into the future to maintain them. This maintenance is highlighted not just as (re)production that we see within efficiency models, but as pleasurable acts of each day, and towards unknown practices of radical access. These schedules then become a place with a possibility of joy for organising and maintaining embodied futures for disabled lives that resist the violence of institutional and hegemonic determination of disabled futures.

With "eccentric economic practices" Kafer talks about the ways that crip people are economic hackers. When the lines of systemic and institutional care don't hold you and you start to slip through. When they limit how much you can earn to maintain your care subsidies and determine you into a certain level of (dis)comfort. This is when these eccentric economics are necessitated and practised, to trade goods, favours and pleasures under the radar so that crips don't compromise our basic needs and care. These economics for Kafer this offers a blurring of the public/private in a way that makes room for these economics to be a test bed for us to imagine what crip politics in action might be capable of. This is where our everyday practices of collective access and interdependence become radical methods for rethinking the politics of how we come together and table, or put to bed our differences.

Kafer's situates crip time between a time of falling in the here and now, meanwhile maintaining our bodies to enact a future with us in it by practising politics of our everyday. Kafer goes on to examine how this framing of crip time lines up against narratives of longevity, focusing on cripping Halberstam's notion of keeping going "under any circumstances"[^r15]. In a queer refusal of longevity, hegemony is understood to reproduce deterministic futures indefinitely. A crip position instead sits with each situated body differently. Kafer asks what it means for that or this body to keep going "under any circumstance"[^r16], and how can we ease the institutional and social pressures that curtail crip life at every turn. Here she is moving to also step out of line and inquire, "what are the circumstances we need but also desire?", and by asking this, also asking how to orient them to be within reach.

To make time for crip time, where we feel our crip bodies maintained in a future that holds them is to radically reconfigure our relations to almost every part of our lives under efficient time. To embody a future with us in it is to practice access as affirmation and to make room and time for people to consent, to be present in and the capacity to care for that time. A future embodied by crips would aim to foster time from a another radical set of roots that can overlay, intertwine and embrace a plurality of times. This radical embrace of crip time makes room within relations, futures and immediate actions that make time for us to hold this crip stuff with care "under any circumstances".

To tie down and bring in-line the proliferating befores and afters of these indeterminate crip time tales, as I have had to for this thesis, I have thought about how to find orientation within space and time that shifts, trickles and lets loose without reason. To sit in disorientation is to be crip, and to be crip is to be more than aslant from the straight axis of time. But with a crip disorientation as an axis, one that changes with bodies in relation, and holds more or less than the x,y,z of things, I start to trace the paths of my crip time tales to future horizons abundant with crips. In this research it has meant to hold slow[^r17] to this crip clock, and find coalitions and collaborations where I build up wiggle room and flexibility within these hard systems and times for the "strange", "imaginative" and "eccentric" crip practices that make room for futures for disabled bodies to inhabit.

[^r12]: "rather than bend disabled bodies and minds to meet the clock, crip time bends the clock to meet disabled bodies and minds" (Kafer, 2013, p. 27)
[^r13]: "The Child through whom legacies are passed down is, without doubt, able-bodied/able-minded" (Kafer 2013, 29)
[^r14]: "How can i articulate a queer crip time that does not oppose queerness to longevity yet maintains a critical stance toward hegemonic expectations of (re)productivity? Or, to put it differently, how do i respond to the fact that the theories we deploy, the speculations we engage, play out across different bodies differently?" (Kafer 2013, 44)
[^r15]: "\[W\]e create longevity as the most desirable future, applaud the pursuit of long life (under any circumstances), and pathologize modes of living that show little or no concern for longevity."(Kafer 2013, 41)
[^r16]: "i read "under any circumstances" and hear "extraordinary measures," "breathing through a machine," "dependent on others." i read "under any circumstances" and hear "better off dead" and "life not worth living."" (Kafer 2013, 41)
[^r17]: As opposed to hold fast.
