### Crip-tic of Vignettes

[02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes](../../02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes/02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes.md) accompanies the last one as a way to bring in the embodied feelings and knowledges of the ableist relations that I theoretically explained in the last chapter but have also experienced during my PhD and wider work. I do this as it is important for my research around disability to be situated at my table and contextualised from the experiences I have had. This chapter aims to bring in much of the background and labour that is often negated or hidden from view of the research table. It refuses to hide these Queer and crip relations, but also to acknowledge my bodily horizon as a gender queer disabled white middle class person, and make that experience and context somewhat knowable in this research.

The crip-tic itself plays on the fractal scales of a tic or stim that is discussed in *Get The Frac In!* (Maier et al. 2020), unpredictable, indefinite and recursive. This also plays with the scales of Tych (diptych, triptych, etc.) in painting, where different paintings are held together in indeterminate compositions. I work with this composition of a crip-tic to offer up insights into some of the bodies I have come into contact with during this research. The crip-tic also aims to be left open to further Tics and indeterminate instances of crip experience that go well out of my reach and make room for the readers to add their own context. The very crip tics that I surface here are a number of tables and normalised relations I have encountered within the UK institutional context where I am based, and which I go through below.

The first table I come to is the *Research Table(chap)*, where I reflect on the frictions I felt when I was taken up as a crip research object by an emerging X Digital Futures Institute. Here I highlight the ways these researchers, and the norms of research they were operating with, made no room for intimacy with the radial politics and practices of crip studies, and in practice infantilised and undermined the possibilities of these politics in action. In reflecting on these frictions I aim to flip the table on how this research table, like many before it, does not have the capacity for, and is not yet in reach of the sorts of radical intimacy and access that crip practices demand.

I then go on to feel out the second table of the *Computing Table (chap)*, where I reflect on being in relation to the ex-cell table of institutions. Here I orient it through both being an access and care requester towards my own medical needs, as well as being a teacher and care giver within institutions. Both of these orientations reflect on a computing table that is configured to not make room for people's voices or needs. These tables are instead oriented to extract specific figures and data from people to hold them in place in their determined ex-cell.

The third crip-tic orients my most recent experiences of the *Operating Table (chap)* and institutional medical model of care. This tic reflects on how I was treated when I had a flair up with my health condition and tried to get care from these institutions. It offers up an insight into the sick crip times that are currently operated by these institutions in the UK and how they are nowhere near in reach of offering me (or others) the care I knew I needed. This inquiry and encounter was a reminder that we are often left off worse by the operations and treatments normalised by these tables of institutional "care". This reflection aims to highlight how the medical model exists in my experience and contextualises it to the current UK political climate of living in the aftermath of austerity cuts to social care.

The final table I come to is the crip table, where I reflect on my experiences of coming to tables and rooms of disability justice and life affirmation. This was a wide range of things but I just touch upon some workshops by M.E.L.T. called *Rest Assured* that I attended, as well as a day-ong symposium by Healing Justice London (HJL), Transformational Governance Collective and Beyond the Rules' seminar called *Life Affirming Organisational Practices*. In both of these experiences I reflect on how being in touch with both their practices of access and capacities for people\'s needs induced a sense making of *guilt*. With this I realised that this feeling of guilt came from the lack of these capacities that I had in myself but also in the relations I had in reach at that time. This sense making also oriented me to know, feel and figure out what sort of access, affirmation and change I wanted to orient towards within my collective social and technical practices.

I poetically sum up this chapter, aiming to bring these tables I am in touch withwith those in theory and giving a material background of these crip-tics that will be flipped. This is also left open to make room for them and this research to be disoriented by both the reader's own situated experiences, as well as those of the community and relational tables I approach throughout the rest of this research. These two first chapters make aim to offer up a bed for this research to then lay its disobedient methodology comfortably atop of. With this making room for a methodology that question the capacities, scales and actions I can make room for with these crip politics and access knowledges in practice

