# Crip-Tic of vignettes

In these sections I situate this research at the tables of my context as a disabled researcher, collaborator and artist, coalescing these different backgrounds to bring together where my research is oriented from. Here I am channelling Alice Wong and her many interviews from the *Disability Visibility Project* (2017), grounding this work in the misfitting and disorientations of being disabled. I do this through a *Crip-Tic of Vignettes*, playing on the tych scales, from diptych to triptych to other compositions, and Cripping it to a tic (Maier et al., 2020) to hold the contradictory scales, relations and recursive experiences these times unfold through. Instead of a static or linear scaling as norm the Crip-Tic makes room for these vignettes to be positioned inside, beside and beyond each other, whilst also holding the possibility of more and less crip times to be held in relation. The Crip-Tic also aims to hold these crip times not in a primarily analytical form, which could undermine or filter their stories towards a particular point, but instead holds them as Crip times in all their complexity, forming wiggle room in my thesis for them to be held in relation and refracted through later findings.

This assemblage in this research draws out four tics of crip times to orient around and within. Crip times at the academic table, where access is desired but superficial, with little negotiation of or room made for what working with critical access and crip studies entails. Crip times within the computational table, reflecting on the standardised forms and their gaps to fill, the limited choices and obfuscated agencies within computing and the technical systems that we are conformed to by our everyday relations to institutions. Crip times on the operating table, where care as treatment is executed within institutions, and where the medical model invalidates and cures society of the sick through configurations of violence and neglect. After these sections I turn and retreat to crip times at the crip table, the table of disability justice and life affirmation, and one where I have experienced radical sets of crip care and politics in action.

