
#### Science Technology Studies (STS) Axis

In Suchman’s essay (ibid.) she gives two examples both covering self-proclaimed bench mark digital infrastructure projects within health. The first inquiry around an speculative one fits all data management system for one of the largest health management organisation (HMO) in the US by Judith Gregory (2000) and the second around the government of rural Andhra Pradesh (India) and their implementation of  their ‘Vision 2020’ policy, which undertook the implementation of a new health information infrastructures and documented by C. R. Ranjini (2007; 2006). I closely read into these two inquiries later in the [05.02.02_Cripping Configuration](05.02.02_Cripping%20Configuration.md) section in this chapter, but Suchman brings them together to offer up and reflect on their misfitting between plans and actions, or in these examples the determined datafied figures and their indeterminate material backgrounds. In both examples Suchman shares that these systems inevitably fail, not because their task of creating comprehensive healthcare tools is impossible, but because of the efficient, normalising, and reductive imaginaries and politics that they were operated through. 

As I shared earlier in this chapter with the brief summary of configuration Suchman uses this framework to think through how the figures, metrics and imaginaries, work in action. With configuration she brings together both the ways in which “technologies materialize cultural imaginaries, just as imaginaries narrate the significance of technical artefacts” (Suchman 2012, 48). In doing this she brings in-line how we plan, imagine and narrate things being done (often sedimented from a centralised, generalised and prescribed approach), with how it is situated through localised practises and material bodily horizons. By bringing these things in-line she aims to form configuration as a method of analysis which can making sense of the reverberations and frictions between situated knowings of systems through practise and the roles and figures which they can be reconfigured through. These two inquiries present this reverberation on each of their own system and infrastructure's bodily horizon to offer up what configuration as method is, and demonstrating how their sedimented norms can be radically disoriented through contingent practises of configuration.

The language I use at the end of the last paragraph is intentionally muddled with Ahmed’s from _Queer Phenomenology_ (2006). This is not only because Ahmed’s work frames my research but also because Suchman’s configuration is also framed through Ahmed’s theories. Instead of _Queer Phenomenology_ though, Suchman builds up from Ahmed’s figure of “the stranger”(2000). In this analysis she shares how Ahmed forms the stranger not as one who is unknown, but instead is recognised as the stranger. Much like the line that divides the family table, that I talk about closely in [01.01.00_Orienting_the_table](../../01_Disability_justice_and_life_affirmation_flipping_the_table/01_entries/01.01.00_Orienting_the_table.md), Suchman takes up Ahmed’s line of inherited delineation to show how “inside(r)s and outside(r)s” are drawn and sedimented. Suchman works with this to show how “the stranger” is formed through citing Marx’s commodity fetishism and reorients it into ‘a fetishism of figures’(Ahmed 2000, 4) that can hold the fantasy and materiality of things together in a plastic form. Suchman later in the essay follows up this figure of the stranger by asking how to trouble the divide between user/designer/expert, and the inherent division between those who can configure out systems for strangers and those how have to live by strangers' figures.

Working from these two examples Suchman defines configuration through a rigid STS axis. This aims to take up examples which situate the work by embedding the STS expert within the field, through interviews, shadowing practitioners and researching paperwork. In some ways being embedded here for STS still means being a stranger, as quality research is only achieved through an exterior expert collating information to figure out these configurations reverberations. Suchman would debate this, as she does in her essay with Karen Barad’s notion of “Agency”(2007)[^2b] where she reminds us that we are entangled within the apparatus no matter our delineation. I very much agree with this but within the framework set out with Ahmed’s table, I ask how much is in reach from these rigid STS positions? And how can I disorient configuration by making room for my communities to reverberate between our matters and how we figure them out.

Especially in the context of this research, of refusing big tech complicity and figuring out other approaches to cloud computing and community infrastructures, it could be asked why not turn to a more recent example of configuring methods? It would be very logical to look to something like Louise Amoore's _Cloud Ethics_ (2020), where the centralised role of the expert is dispersed to those in touch with each other and the infrastructures. Her methodology also aligns with mine, where these challenges are made through counter figures, of telling narratives or stories, making songs and contextualising configurations in messy localities. I instead take this step back to Suchman's configuration (2012) not just because it helps to accessibly demonstrate the genealogy of configuration, but also as she takes up disabled matters, and life-affirming infrastructures. I later go on to show in cripping configuration that both Suchman and Amoore still seem to negate and invalidate disabled voices, politics and theory within their dialogues. In the next section's inquiry I firstly offer up how practices of critical access are in themselves radical impact centred configuring practices, and ones that configuring life-affirming infrastructures. In doing this I then return to this STS axis to share the necessity of this inflection of access, and why indeed we need to centre crip politics and practices in these debates, not negate and invalidate them.


[^2b]: “As Barad reminds us, we are always already inside the worlds that we take as the objects of our actions” (Suchman 2012, 57)
