### Figure

To define figure, I start by working closely with Celia Lury et. al's already fairly accessible definition (2022). In the intro chapter to their _Figure Concept and Method_ book they define two propositions of figure, one as a noun and one as a verb. The difference in the two is key, as I will share, as it takes us from passive and inherited determined figures, and stories of a world, to being able to figure out our own stories and relations with each other and technologies.

#### As a noun, Figure

To define figure as a noun, they first build up from Erich Auerbach’s (2013) tracing of its etymology within “Figura” in Latin. Figura developed from a constellation of technical Greek words that orient the materiality of things and plays between plasticity and form within their shaping. Auerbach raises the tension within Figura which came about to think through this delineation of both the material and conceptual elements of an object. In a sense this meant that within western discourse Figura, or later figures, became a place to pivot or orient our understanding of the material through the conceptual. Figures are sedimented into christian doctrine, where stained in glass they can be understood as a way of forming futures from pasts[^1a], making prophesy from historic fables. Quoting Hayden White, Lury et al. states that the use of figures to represent this exchange is “Western culture’s unique achievement of identifying reality as history”(1999, 96). In this motion of prefiguring, Auerbach understands a flow of figuring that deterministically moves into set configurations of material practices and the limited scoping of their possibility.

When brought into the fields of social and political studies Figures are used in multiple ways. Lury et al. highlights Norbert Elias (1987) as a sociologist who focuses on the relationality and interdependence of persons and the ways this can figure their configuration. In his work he states it is the role of a social scientist to understand how these configurations bind them to their subject another (ibid., 79). This understanding of figures as relational practices forms the base for figurational sociology. In these figurational practices we start to understand that figures are not determined prototypes, but act as stories in motion, plastic and performable. Lury runs through a few of these performances of figures in relation, moving from an isolated and disinterested flâneur by Charles Baudelaire through to Walter Benjamin’s crowd (2003). In doing this she not only shares the plasticity of the figure, but also how in their relationality they are lived through.

The final critique Lury et al. (2022, 4) make of the figure as a noun is of its western context, of the list of white men referenced to manifest it here in writing. In the most part, they point out that within this relational practice of the figure is a practice of differencing and division[^2a]. To examine this division further they take up Alexander G. Weheliye’s critique of “racialisation” (2014) as a crucial axis. With Weheliye they question sedimented figures by moving from following what they scope to questioning how they are scoped. Through this inversion of their approach to figures it can be understood as a probing tool, one for reflecting on and feeling out our means of producing knowledge.

Interestingly this movement of inverting the figure to understand its maker also resonates with the move of the social model of disabilitie’s inversion of the medical model which I talk more about in the [01.02.01_PoliticalRelational_Model](../../01_Disability_justice_and_life_affirmation_flipping_the_table/01_entries/01.02.01_PoliticalRelational_Model.md) entry. In this move the social model's inversion of sedimented power relations and their practices, even though useful to understand certain aspects of power, can in some ways miss the nuance of relations. With a crip approach I look to trouble this by exploring how a figure can of course be inverted, but also what other relations and practices can I make room for when I choose to feel the frictions between figures and their backgrounds.

#### As a verb, Figuring

Figuring as a verb takes on the action of forming figures, of figuring things out and of composing or computing figures. within this diversity of forms and use of figure there is a focus on the tactility of thinking when we are working through them. Taken as method figuring makes room to apprehend the shape of something, of feeling out a figure, collating one together, and making wiggle room for another one to join. In this figuring out of space, much like with the noun, is this division of what is brought into being a figure and what is backgrounded to contour that figure. Lury et al. approaches this with Edgar Rubin’s psychological research into perception (1958), where his depiction of figure and ground are defined by the “contour” that runs between them. They give the example of the “Rubin vase”[^3a]. With Ahmed I could similarly ask what contingent approaches and practises do I rely upon, turning back to them when feeling out contours of bodily-horizons, as I have not found another path I yet desire, or another background to figure out from. This is especially true within disability studies where the figure of the crip is only just disobediently emerging into discourse of other fields, and has always been kept in the background. With my crip figuring out it is to make wiggle room around these sedimented norms for this disabled figure to be contoured among, and with it the demands of critical access and disobedient relational politics of crip theory.

[^1a]: “The Old Testament “pre- figures” the New Testament, past and future are symbiotically shaped in, and indeed incarnated by, typology: Word made flesh" (Lury, Viney, and Wark 2022, 2)

[^2a]: “the fig-ure of “man” figures who gets to be considered human by means of a series of constitutive exclusions (Mbembe 2017). Does one have to be male to count as “man”? White? Western? Wealthy? Able-bodied?" (Lury, Viney, and Wark 2022, 4)

[^3a]: ““Rubin vase,” which can be seen as a decorative vase on a dark background or two faces on a light background—reflects on its own conditions of emergence" (Lury, Viney, and Wark 2022, 6)

 