### Configure-ability In-Workshops

I am bringing into focus here an iteration of these _Practising Protocols_ workshops, which emerged from the aforementioned long tail of in-flex-able inquiries into [05.03.01_Configure-ability_In-Docs](../../../../Thesis%20📖%20Backup/chapters/05_In-Configure-Ability/sections/05.03.01_Configure-ability_In-Docs.md). This workshop is a focus of this inquiry as it is the point at which I made room for these technical network practices, that were made know-able through smaller working groups on the Servpub project over long periods, to be brought back and made accessible and known to the larger group of In-grid. The scope for this workshop's actions were to do the initial configuring out and setting up of our collective server. This initiation of our network infrastructure made room for In-grid members to build up our technical capacities and emerge future collective and community projects from. The actions of this workshop were contextually quite simple ones, and oriented setting up our first virtual private server (VPS) hosted with Servus and in doing so providing In-grid members with their "user" accounts and access to these infrastructures. Along side this technical practice we also figuring out of our own iteration of protocols and intentions for this platform as we came into contact with it and made sense of these frictions. This simplicity of the workshop also aimed to make room to welcomed the wider group of In-grid members to this server space, and through this bring these network practices in-touch with In-grids background. Playfully I named this workshop *(¬*¬)/' Serv(er)ing In-grid\_ as we were not only setting up In-grid with a server, but we were also configuring out together what In-grid would serve there. This followed on from this researches methodology, where we made room to collectively inquiry into how we wanted to imagine, tell tales of, and configure out In-grids in-frastructure together.

Fortunately I had managed to get a bit of funding from the University for these workshops, which enabled me to go up to London and do the event in person with In-grid members. Even though this was the case a number of In-grid members were running an exhibition in east London at the time, and so Yewen Jin who had volunteered to look after the exhibition asked if we could make it a hybrid event, so we pivoted onto a video call. In this workshop funding I had also factored in refreshments into this budget which meant we could eat and commune together before/during/after the workshop. This was important to bring these social, caring and joyous elements into our in-frastructure. For the access needs form I also made room within its inflexible limits to be oriented through pleasure by not only providing inputs for people's access needs and dietaries, but also for communal joy and indeterminate. I did this by asking what people's favourite snacks and treats were as well as for them to suggest music for the workshop playlist within this access form.

Sunni Liao had kindly volunteered their flat for us to meet and do this workshop in. That morning before the workshop me and Sunni had met up and gone climbing like we do together when I am in London. We caught up about life whilst we warmed up and fell off the wall many times. We rushed back to their flat to get ready for the workshop, and prep everything. Sunni cooked up some tasty food for us, while I got the treats and workshop ready. Other Members of In-grid started to arrive and we caught up and got ready together. Running slightly behind we ate as we began the workshop.

With Yewen online and the rest of us settling in we started to go through the workshop and practised our protocols as we configured out our server for the first time. Most members of In-grid, especially the ones who were present, are fairly computer and coding literate, with some having existing knowledge of server practices. This meant for the workshop, I could put more focus on querying and feeling out the protocols we were actioning, In this we made room within them to be disoriented by our sense making of relations and feeling of friction from our embodied expertise. To do this I made wiggle room within slides I edited down from the Servpub docs I discussed earlier, making room for us to reflect within each step of this processes, and orient from these points of contact. In each of these creating a sub inquiries into how In-grid would collectively figure out each of these protocols locally. These spaces of reflection are named in context of their actions and were made up of *Coding protocols*, *SSH protocols*, *Sudo protocols*, *User protocols*, *Digital safe space protocols*, *Collective working protocols*. 

After this collective figuring out of network protocols I asked us to write In-grid's first collective server manifesto together. To do this I made room for us to reflect on the feminist server manifesto (Constant, 2015) and form our own alignments and orientations to/from it. From here we itterated into our own manifesto as a way to coalese these knowledges from this practising of protocols and its collective sense-making into the background of our manifesto. Here manifesting a server as we manifested its manifesto. The resulting Femfester manifesto with a small intro was then published in first edition of *Artists Running Datacentres* (Simms et al., 2024). Below I reflect on this collective inquiry and the [notes](https://femfester.in-grid.io/) from the *(¬*¬)/' Serv(er)ing In-grid\_ workshop to give insight into what we came into contact with, disoriented with our embodied expertise and made friction with when configured this collective network infrastructure out together otherwise.

