##### In-Docs

To question the barriers of technical language and sedimented formats of technical docs I suggested we orient to crip studies and Kelsie Acton's chapter *Plain Language for Disability Culture* (2023). This chapter by Acton poses how to approach language, structuring and formating to re-configure them into more accessible plain language. This is not meant as a a reduction of what is there but a reinterpretation of how we represent, translate and figure these relations and dynamics to/with others in accessible forms. It is also meant as a way to open up different discourses, such as technical ones like these, to be within reach of the disabled community. In this approach challenging the scope of what disabled people (and others) can have expertise around, access to and intimacy with. Here informed by her concept we actioned this inquiry by firstly being conscious of Acton's principles[^53] but also thinking through how we can localise this dialogue into technical docs and our own capacities. To do this I turned to Acton's plain language version of Alice Wong's anthology of essays called *Disability Intimacy* (2024), which informed us how to orient towards plain language. We situated these alongside the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)[^54] to think about how a Plain -ish Language WCAG (P-ish-LWCAG) might be oriented.

With this in focus In-grid started to reconfigure the limits of docs by trying to make room within their norms for docs to be improvisable and knowable by different capacities and approaches. One way we did this was by making more room in the introductory sections of docs to hold more information about the background of these infrastructures, and discussing what these technologies are and why we are using them in this infrastructure. We also made sure to take care of and cover the technical elements that the norms of docs from our experience would brushed over or straighten out. With this metaphorical curb cut in the introductions to sections, we aimed to form ways in for people to relate to these practices who had divergent backgrounds to the ones where these technical procedures had emerged from. In doing this we made room for bodies which did not fit that of a normid super user or expert and instead highlighted this misfitting, its frictions and points of contact as generative sites for that body to re-imagine and reconfigure these social and technical infrastructures. 

Through this approach we also emerged our own syntax and formats for clearly signing both links and technical code elements. For links this oriented going beyond descriptive links to give extra short descriptions below them for people to get a better idea of what lay beyond. For the code inserts we started to form our own standards of how to make the technical syntax docs encoded more legible and improvisable. To do this in code exerts we highlighted \<variables\> with these brackets, and followed this up with how we had run them ourselves. There is an example quoted below. We did this to also emphasise the readers capacity to improvise and adapt these practices to the persons own local context. With this trying to make room to run them as non-procedural practices which do not orient them to a specific user and determined technical infrastructure. In this motion troubling the procedural deterministic norms of docs to instead make room for people to access these practices and knowledges through divergent disorienting dialogues.

> \"Syntax: `sudo tinc -n <NETNAME> init <NODENAME>`
>
> So we did: `sudo tinc -n systerserver init servpub`\" 
> (In-grid, 2025)

Towards the end of writing the docs we also found through extended networks outside of Servpub of an earlier documentation from the XPUB docs[^55] as well as Lurk's *RUN YOUR OWN*[^56], that the VPN parts of the Servpub infrastructure were based on. These clearly showed how to setup these systems and would have saved us lots of time configuring out these infrastructures. It would have been sensible to follow the efficient "Don't repeat yourself" (DRY) mantra of course, but in some ways this repetition, or what *Get the frac in* (Maier et al., 2020) might explain as a "Tic", lead us to repeat the same stuff but maybe as plain-ish stuff. At this later stage we were also facing the fact that the VPN elements of these docs (TINC) were becoming deprecated. Feeling the impact of both of these frictions we decided to reorient again from the norms of docs being an active site to pose these docs as more of an archive documenting and make knowable this infrastructure's background. This is displayed well within the VPN with Tinc page[^1w] where we formed wiggle room within these docs for the histories and genealogies of infrastructures, and to share how different collective bodies, relations and practice can manifest and disorient these normalised infrastructures when they have brought them within reach.

[^53]: "Note on writing: This chapter is written in what I call a semi- plain language style. This means I do the following: - Use an active voice - Mostly use the 6000 most common words in the English language - Use short sentences - Use 14 point font - Use "I" and "you" \" (Acton, 2023)
[^54]: WACG Docs - https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/
[^55]: https://pzwiki.wdka.nl/mediadesign/Tinc
[^56]: https://things.bleu255.com/runyourown/VPN\_with\_Tinc
[^1w]: https://wiki4print.servpub.net/index.php?title=Docs:03_VPN_with_Tinc

