### In-reflection

In reflecting on our [05.02_Processing In-Configure-ability](../../../../Thesis%20📖%20Backup/chapters/05_In-Configure-Ability/sections/05.02_Processing%20In-Configure-ability.md), our development of accessible doc practices, to make room for *Serv(er)ing In-grid* by *Practicing Protocols* to *Femfester* together our first server manifesto in the [05.03.00_Configure-ability_In-](05.03.00_Configure-ability_In-.md) section, I aimed to offer up how configure-able methods can make room within relations for the flexibility our collective and communal bodies need and orient towards within our sociotechnical infrastructures. This entangle set of inquiries made room for In-grid (and I) to take configure-able methods up and to not only practice but also process and configure out locally the manifestation of our collective  infrastructures. Reflecting more closely on the outcomes of the multitude of outcomes, I think it worked well as a method to wiggle room within these technical practices through critical access informed disobedient collective interventions of expertise. In-grid here taking our sweet time to form collective imaginaries from our background and through these direct actions. With these actions making room for our embodied situated knowledges as a group to disorient how we want to configure these social and technical reltions of network infrastructure and collective organising from their sites of impact. For me these inquiries into in-configure-ability, it has  emerged as a methodology and practice for In-grid to challenge the norms and sedimented relations of security politics we have inherited through our own disobedient politics and figures of collective access. To do this we retreated from these norms and turned to social practices of forming community trust, interdependence and care. With this movement we aimed to retreat from the myths and figures of security and transparency, to instead orient to that of critical access as a way to distribute the knowing and expertise throughout a group, instead of having it transparently figured out for them.
