## Background

To form the figures of this inquiry I will first start by forming the background for them to emerge from, and trace the long tail that builds up to contour these bodies. In-grid's background rises from our emergence during a collective residency run at Arebyte Gallery in 2020 at the start of the pandemic. This was run by Rachel Falconner, Helen Pritchard and Rabecca Edwards. During this residency a group of 10-20 of us formed a set of skill shares and collaborations with artists and technical practitioners across a number of fields. This was held mostly online, and focused on people's fluctuating capacities during a very stressful and unpredictable pandemic, forming a very specific relation for working. We often joke about how this has trauma bonded us together.

Since the residency we kept communing together, talking and keeping in touch. It was a year or so later when the pandemic and lock down started to ease that we began to come back together and regularly work again. This was during the first year of my PhD and during this time we built up multiple collective events, forming distributed ways of working and facilitating outcomes together. These ranged from a series of club nights/events called *Real Bodies* beginning at Corsica nightclub, with many installed works and performances, to *Chain* at Iklectic where In-grid formed a preformative infrastructure that evolved over the night. Since then we have kept working together forming other exhibitions, infrastructures and skill shares collectively, as well as slowly establishing our internal organisation practices in the small bits of time we can be together.

Over this time people have joined and left, so we have balanced out to be a core group of 5-8 people and max 10-15 who can join in and contribute where they want and are able. These blury numbers may seem odd but they are due to our open door policy, which makes rooms for members to come and go as they need. This structure has formed through us orienting to make space for those of limited capacities due to work, life or health, as well as our constant lack of (institutional) funding that is common in community/arts work in post austerity UK. We also have a wide range of disciplines, capacities and approaches, from musicians to web developers and community activists. This brings an eclectic set of goal and desires to the background of this group.

Another focus in this background is the 8M Trans\*feminist counter cloud strike[^t1] that we took a part of in 2021 and the years since with a number of different collectives in coalition. This meeting of many communities and collectives was also a major shift in In-grids desires and background. This strike focused on moving away from big tech ecologies and instead starting to invest our time, energy and resources into re-approaching how we can work with and for technical infrastructures towards our own collective orientation of them. These meetings formed the basis for our desire to not only question In-grid's own collective infrastructure but to also start to approach being in coalition with other communities.

From this background I crop into two different scales of inquiry for this research. Within these inquiries and reflections I aim to both demonstrate Configure-Able Methods in action, and how they are localised within and emerge from In-grid's dynamic and intersectional background.

[^t1]: https://www.in-grid.io/projects/8m/
