# In-configure-ability

In this Chapter I reflect on my inquiry into the intersectional work I undertook as a member of In-grid. This inquiry builds out of In-grid's slowly sedimented collective practices and aims to highlight how through first person action research and disobedient action research methods I have introduced critical access as a critical framework and practice to reorient our ways of relating to and coalescing tables of social and technical infrastructure. It specifically orients how we accessed and were accessed by practices and their knowledges, reflecting on how practices and their knowledges have been oriented to be accessible to the wider In-grid collective, 8M communities and wider public.

To do this I am following the prior chapters pre-figuring of configure-able to go beyond that "definition" and instead focus on it in action and through reflective inquiry. I do this firstly by setting a background for these figures to emerge from, acting as a ground for them to be contoured and figured out from. I then inquire and reflect on moments and relations of misfitting and inflex. These moments of inflex and misfitting of bodies enabled us to feel out where there were points of friction and constraint that revealed seams for us to wiggle into. Inflex as a word here also highlights the making crooked of something. Through both crip studies and queer theory, with Kafer and Ahmed, we can understand this as people with disabilities being othered, or made into crooked crooks for society to lean on and oppress to differentiate a normal or superior from. With Ahmed and this research's framing we can query this-holding-things-in-place-of-inflex, and ask instead what things might be able of when configured with flex-ability. Doing this I hope to enable an inquiring into what contingencies we might be able of when we reorient our approach to not be so dominant. In this work these points of inflex are the contours that outline these specific localised figures. This framing of inflex is also meant to move these dialogues beyond the problem/solution axis of curative design practices, and instead focus on how we address and orient towards not only validating feeling out these frictions, but enable that feeling and figuring out as part of their process, forming varying positions, orientations and approaches that a crip intersectionality invokes.

Working through this framing, I reflect on In-grids collective inquiry, as well as my first person inquiry, into how to address these inlfex-abilities within infrastructural coalition with in-flex-abilities. This is a recurring word play from us, where we get in- to all sorts of things (and trouble). Here though focusing on how we built up our own abilities to flex and practice access in contexts and relations of technical communication and infrastructuring, as well as collective organisation, decision making and feedback. These are again not answers, cures or generalised solutions but reflections on how we as a group have felt frictions from inflex, and in response enabled in-flex-abilities to make wiggle room in these seems and through configure-able practices of access.

