### Figuring out Inflexibility

When defining inflexibility, I proposed a few questions and prompts for us to work through together and to make room for us to define these terms by reflecting on our experiences of our collective practice. With these questions around inflexibility we touched upon many different aspects of what this term could offer to us. One of the major points of disorientation within our dialogues and definition of inflexibility was when I brought crip studies into this conversation. This was after members of In-grid joked about capitalism being the ultimate inflexibility, forcing our bodies into uncomfortable and unwanted orientations just to get by. In response I agreed, bringing this jest into focus with crip studies opening up the ways it critiques capitalism's invalidation of bodies and matters through dialogues of productivity, value and normalisation. From this opening up of crip studies and critical access, we very much overflowed with experiences and critiques of the frictions we had felt together. One clear example we touched upon from reflecting on In-grids collective organisational practice is how banking systems make no room for organisations like us, yet we need a bank to work legally and be valid. This dynamic in practice left us not only with a very limited choice of one bank to work with, but the one that remained did not really match our politics. This process of getting that misfitting bank also took us months to sort out through their dysfunctional admin system, and our part-time non-expertise capacities. Here we made sense of these frictions and how these systems had taken us from how we wished we could orient ourselves (e.g. having easy flow of funds held by an ethical source) to the inflexible position of having a glitchy bank account profiteered off by unethical businesses.

One point of friction around the definition of inflex came from whether restraints we put on ourselves could be understood as inflexibility. For example whether us keeping accountable to one another, taking our time and refusing certain relations or politics would be us being inflexible. Here I turned us again to this relational critique of access from crip studies, where the "problem" is not held in our individual bodies or needs being met, but rather in the social and systemic relations of politics that limit our ability to reach our needs that could otherwise be possible. With this notion inflexibility is positioned within the systems and their relations, in it needing us to perform specific roles (users), and with specific bodily figures and horizons (normids), to be able to be valid and approachable on their sedimented often inaccessible line. Reflecting on this later on though we do touch upon how In-grid, as our members work in institutes and were taught by them, have these systems and politics embedded in us, and how we have tried to make room to work through these frictions we feel in ourselves. 


