# In-configure-ability

In this Chapter I reflect on the intersectional inquiry I undertook into Configure-Able methods as a member of In-grid. This inquiry builds out of In-grid's slowly sedimented collective practices and aims to highlight how through first person action research and disobedient action research methods I have introduced critical access as a critical framework and practice to reorient our ways of relating to and coalescing tables of social and technical infrastructure together. It specifically orients how we formed technical practices of collective access that disoriented the norms of expertise within our  network and organisational practices and their knowledges. In this I aim to share how Crip theory and critical access doesn't have to be extra time or assimilationist, but can be a place to collectively orient from in the configuration of our communities and their infrastructures.

To do this I am following of from prior chapters forming of [04_Configure-Able_Methods](../../05_Configure-Able_Methods/04_Configure-Able_Methods.md), I aim to go beyond that initial "definition" and move to feel it out in action and through collective inquiry. I do this by initially setting a background for these figures to emerge from, acting as a ground for In-grid's practices to be contoured and figured out from. I then reflect on a focus group I organised for In-grid members that reflected on the longer arcs in our collective practices through a framing of critical access. Here I made room for us to figure out frictions in these experiences and in doing so questioning the inflexibilities of the systems we felt. Orienting from these points we questioned how we had formed wiggle room around or within these points of impact through In-flex-ability. This is a recurring word play from us, where In-grid get In- to all sorts of trouble. In-flex-ability as we go on to define through action is manifested through  interdependence in action, and where we can make room together to distribute and move around these systemic pressures and frictions, aiming to move towards how we want to collectively orient ourselves. This framing of In-flex-ability is also meant to move these dialogues beyond the problem/solution axis of curative design practices, and instead focus on how In-grid address and orient towards not only validating our feeling around these existing frictions, but make room for that feeling as part of the sense making and figuring out processes of configuration.

Working through this framing, I reflect on In-grids collective inquiry, as well as my first person inquiry, into how we approached these systemic inflexibilities through our collective in-flex-abilities. These inquiries then go on to take into closer consideration the technical network practices we undertook together. This inquiry resulted in the forming of accessible technical for the Servpub and Tinc VPN that I reflect on in [06.03.01.00_Configure-ability_In-Docs](06.03.01.00_Configure-ability_In-Docs.md). From these we also emerged a set of workshops to make more space for these collective figuring out practices that we ran at 4S/EASST 2024 as well as internally, which I reflect on in [06.03.02.00_Configure-ability_In-Workshops](06.03.02.00_Configure-ability_In-Workshops.md). From these In-flex-able technical network practise I reflect on the counter figures and configurations we manifested along the way, as well as the emergence into In-grid's first Feminist Server Manifesto, that we called Femfester and published with Artists Running Datacentres (Simms et al., 2024). 



