
## Configure-Able Futures

This reflection also brings with it the capacity for me within this research to think forward to the futures this methodology is already unfolding within my own reach, no matter if it gets taken up by others.

Within In-grid we have already started to care for the friction and deprication of Tinc VPN, starting to configure out together own use of Wireguard virtual private network (VPN). In this we are also already carrying on this Configure-Able methods of questioning the frictions we feel as we come into contact with WireGaurd and get to know it. This includes things like the naming of Wireguard, as again conflating privacy with security politics like I discuss in [05.03.01.02.02_In-Practice](../05_In-Configure-Ability/05_entries/05.03.01.02.02_In-Practice.md), as well as the ways it orients figures of efficiency and accessibility towards infinite growth. Here Configure-Able methods has made room for us to stay with the trouble of WireGaurd, but in doing so configuring out our own imaginary of VPNs and private/safe network infrastructures and practices.

With NEoN Digital and their community partners, In-grid and I have been invited to practice these Configure-Able methods with them to manifest a community server funded by the Scottish Council for Voluntary Organisations (SCVO)[^91] infrastructural funds. This project is just beginning but it will be interesting to practice these methods with a community that may be newer or bring more diverse backgrounds, expertise and knowing to these infrastructuring tables and what generative frictions they may make sense of. Entering into this project In-grid is also starting to formulate and configure more accountable organisational practices, thinking back to the advice form Healing Justice London (HJL) I reflect on at [03.04_The_crip_table](../../03_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes/03_entries/03.04_The_crip_table.md). In this again orienting to make knowable and accessible the organisational structures and power relations within these working groups so that they may be more easily be disputed, rather than reinforced.

Within the Cozy-Cloud this collaboration is still very much in emergence and slowly becoming a pivoting point for more crip people to orient from and wiggle room on networks for us together. I have been gently building up this collaboration through inviting some more collaborators to be involved. In inviting people in taking our sweet crip ass time to be intimate and emerge Cozy relations to maintain this crip social and technical network infrastructures. Some of the more recent actions have been figuring out the protocols we need to communicate as well as the disobedient efficiencies we need to make room for us to have capacity to be together around/within institutional limits.

[^91]: https://scvo.scot/