
## Reflecting On Configure-Able Methods

In [05_Configure-Able_Methods](../../05_Configure-Able_Methods/05_Configure-Able_Methods.md) I form an outline through theory and action of what _Configure-Able Methods_ are. Here bringing from my research's crip background, I form a critique of Configuration in STS, and in it I make room for critical access informed impact centred approaches to community configuration. This initial orienting of Configure-Able Methods is also informed through a reflection on collective access for a workshop I organised for NEoN digital called _Configure-Able Infrastructures_. Through this inquiry into access knowledge I worked with the dispersed expertise of collaborators and participants to improvise, configure out and orient towards accessible Free Libre Open-Source Software (FLOSS). In this orientation making sense of the impacts, frictions and restraints I felt, both from the sedimented institution norms of computing and academia, but from these making space to figure out how to orient them towards access and affirmation. This chapter results in [05.02.02_Cripping Configuration](../../05_Configure-Able_Methods/05_entries/05.02.02_Cripping%20Configuration.md) to make room for these Configure-Able Methods to emerge as impact centred, critical access informed community infrastructuring methods that aim to make wiggle room for flexible messy localities within inflexible systems.

In [06_In-Configure-Ability](../../06_In-Configure-Ability/06_In-Configure-Ability.md) I undertook an intersectional collaboration with In-grid where these Configure-Able methods have made room for us to orient from critical access, instead of having it as extra time. In this inquiry with In-grid members we disoriented our  organisational infrastructures and practices by making room for us to feel out our collective bodily horizon and how we wanted to orient ourselves outside of the inflexible sedimented and restrictive norms. In a focus group I talk about in [06.02.00_Processing In-Configure-ability](../../06_In-Configure-Ability/06_entries/06.02.00_Processing%20In-Configure-ability.md), we collectively reflected on how this had happened through our banking and internal politics, questioning where we felt impacted by sedimented systemic inflexibilities, and in doing so forming space tom imagine and enact ways to orient towards how we collectivley are within these relations. Through [06.03.00_Configure-ability_In-](../../06_In-Configure-Ability/06_entries/06.03.00_Configure-ability_In-.md) I also reflect on a closer on a long term inquiry around how we came into contact with network infrastructuring practices, orienting them through collective access and building up our capacities to share their technical skills and dialogues, but also make them more disputable by different expertise. From these practices emerged the *Practicing Protocols* workshop through hich we emerged our own counter figures and roles of these network infrastructures, moving from the determined limits of "users" and "servers", to make room for our own divergent roles of carer, maintainer, character, collaborator and/or persona. In this wiggle room making flexibility for our collective roles/relations, embodied knowledges, and expertise to emerge from our backgrounds and make impact on hard systems. Through these iterations and situated contexts of Configure-Able methods with In-grid, it made room for us to interdependently feel out and action how we wanted to reconfigure our approaches to organisation, server infrastructures, and collective maintenance.

Through the collaboration of the Cozy-Cloud these Configure-Able methods have surfaced, of course, through the manifesting of this cripped server, but also through the specific works that I have shared. In [07.02.00_Cozy_Intentions](../../07_A_Cozier_Configure-Able_Methods/07_entries/07.02.00_Cozy_Intentions.md) this oriented making intentions for this server through design frictions. In this both making room within stickers for access alt texts (which they lacked), but also for Alt Texts to make room for wider relational critiques of network access and the sediment ableist norms of these infrastructures and their imaginaries. In [07.03.01_en-crip-ing_time](../../07_A_Cozier_Configure-Able_Methods/07_entries/07.03.01_en-crip-ing_time.md) I also reflect on the first collaboration with the Cozy-Cloud with Marianna Marangoni. Here we made room together to disorient and crip the computational clock and the social relations of the server we had inherited. Here figuring crip types of variability towards infrastructures through poetic chronic jobs that shared crip times through intimate protocols. These inquiries as well as the [07.04_Futures_x_Desires](../../07_A_Cozier_Configure-Able_Methods/07_entries/07.04_Futures_x_Desires.md) of the Cozy-Cloud making room for crips to figure out through critical access in action, what a life affirming network infrastructure might be.

These inquiries give shape to the capacity for wiggle room that Configure-Able methods can manifest within and around the inherited norms of our communities social and technical infrastructures. Through this research Configure-Able methods has emerged within these situated collaborations as a generative methodology to disorient the narrative, roles and configurations that have been normalised within our network infrastructures by bringing our collective bodily horizon in touch with them, but more importantly impact on them. This was done by making room to validate the sense making and frictions that different collaborations felt when accessing these technologies together. Within this room for friction also forming from them counter figures and configurations that orient from our collective backgrounds and embodied knowing that aim to disorient these systems with our locality. These methods of course are still in practice, and I am excited to be writing this up and reflecting on how they have emerged differently within each context they have been manifested at.

