# Introduction

This thesis brings to the table my research into and practices of Configure-Able methods. These Configure-Able methods have emerged through my researches transdisciplinary approach, which brings together Queer Feminism, crip theory and Science and Technology Studies (STS). With this research approach I inquire around how to form wiggle room within the inherited norms of network and organisational infrastructures when configuring them out locally with communities. In this context I collaborated with a Trans\*Feminist digital arts collective In-grid[^q1], and the initiation of a crip centred server space called the Cozy-Cloud[^q2]. With this question of "is it Configure-Able?" I inquired with them into how our communities, digital art collectives and crip servers can manifest their social and technical infrastructures to fit around our capacities, bodies and needs. In these inquiries we found friction with the determined roles, relations and matters we rubbed up against or were forced into. Here we orientedto trying to put our communities and their organisation/network configuring practices in touch with each other by distributing expertise through critical access, so that they can mutually affect the capacities, limits and horizons of each other. With my inquiries this has both oriented the configuration of network infrastructures and organisation practices to be more accessible to collective practices and dialogues, but also for these infrastructuring and organising practices themselves to be figured out by community impacted by them. This is where my work with critical access and crip theory disorients this research\'s approach and demands not for extra time or room around the inherited norm, but for community, interdependence and impact centred practices to become an indeterminate norm that we centre on when approaching configuring our collective infrastructures.

Configure-Able methods in this research makes wiggle room with communities by disorienting the figures of their social and technical configurations. Figures are the roles[^q3], stories[^q4], and metaphors[^q5] that orient and lay out the plans that go on to be configured into infrastructures. So when, with Configure-able methods in my collaborations, when we start to disorient their figures from the ground up, such as users as carer, servers as collaborators and security as safety through intimacy the plans and their configurations drastically change. This is especially emphasised in my turn to radical disability politics of crip theory and its disobedience that goes beyond the talking about frictions we have with the figures and politics, to reorient to making friction through direct action and configuring out our own local improvisation together where possible. This direct action in my collaborative inquiries have even been simple things like admitting our collective orientation and ethics is out of reach for now. In this acknowledgement though, is a figuring out together what we do want and how to wiggle towards the room this needs together. These actions have also been more material movements such as collectively manifesting In-grid's first server infrastructure, as well as forming a ccrip centred server called the Cozy-Cloud. Through these inquiries and reflections I aim to offer up forms and capacities that these Configure-Able methodology not only enact, but demand!

Later on in this chapter I go through a closer reading of the thesis and give an overview of each chapter to orient them to be more accessible. Next though I go through figuring the background of this research, which is a recurring move in this thesis. Bringing focus to the background gives room, contour and shape for figures and bodies to emerge from. In this initial background I give a short introduction to why my research and practice disobediently oriented towards the emergence of Configure-able methods through collective and community centred organisation and infrastructuring.

[^q1]: <https://www.in-grid.io/>
[^q2]: <https://cozy-cloud.net/>
[^q3]: User, Designer, Server, Client, Expert
[^q4]: Of zero trust internet networks, security as privacy and centralised control as achievable.
[^q5]: Secure Shell (SSH) handshakes, firewalls and chronic jobs.
