### In-configure-ability

[05_In-Configure-Ability](../../05_In-Configure-Ability/05_In-Configure-Ability.md) covers one of the inquiries into situating Configure-Able methods within embedded collective practice. To do this I collaborated with In-grid, a Trans\*Feminist digital arts collective I helped to set up in 2020. In this context, I worked with the collective to situate Configure-Able methods within our practices to make room for practices for figuring out how we wanted to organise ourselves and our digital network infrastructure together. In doing this, we also queried how we were organised by the inherited relations of our pre-existing social and technical infrastructures that we came in touch with. To inquire into this with In-grid, I have been working through Disobedient AR to practise how these Configure-Able methods can come into being over a reasonable period of time (2+ years) and within an embedded intersectional community. 

To reflect on this collaboration organised a focus group, where In-grid members collectively figured out our organisational practises together and reflecting on how we had been impacted by the systemic inflexibilities, and in turn how we had collectivley oriented and flexed (where possible) to refuse these normalised tables and relations, to make room for our own. I follow this up with a first person AR reflections around In-grid's technical knowledge sharing practices, informing the group both with Kelsie Acton's notion of *Plain Language* (2023) to make room for us to orient from and centre critical access. I also reflect on the work with In-grid to develop the *Practising Protocols* workshops for 4S/EASST, making room for people to disorient these server practices through their embodied and distributed expertise. I this builds to a key focus on a later iteration of these workshops I ran internaly for In-grid, and playfully named *(¬*¬)/' Serv(er)ing In-grid\_ as we were not only setting up In-grid with a server, but we were also configuring out together what In-grid would serve there. This internal workshop emerged a collective table of expertise from which we coalesced In-grid's iteration of the *Feminist Server Manifesto* (Constant 2015), called the Femfester which was published in the first edition of *Artist Running Datacentres* jounral (Simms et al. 2024).

This chapter aims to bring to this research table the many scales that I have been manifesting Configure-Able methods within my collaborations with In-grid. By situating these methods in an intersectional collective practice I offer up how critical access can not only be an extra we add on to our social and technical practices but something that can be orient from and action with. In this disorientation of configuration in action we made room for our plans in action to reverberate from the bodies, figures and relations they were in touch with, making wiggle room for In-grid to exist within, around and beyond the sedimented and inherited limits we impacted by.

