### Configure-able methods

[04_Configure-Able Methods](../../04_Configure-able_Methods/04_Configure-Able%20Methods.md) is one of the first actions of manifesting through inquiry within this thesis. In it I start to lay down the foundational inquiries into Configure-Able methods by cripping  Science and Technology Studies (STS) methods. I start by forming an accessible genealogy of configuration working with Celia Lury et al.'s chapter on *Figure, Figuring and Configuration* (2022). This genealogy moves from figures as abstract stories, roles and statistics, that we imagine and represent society through, to configuring how these figured plans and stories are brought into material action. I specifically highlight the work of Lucy Suchman's *Configuration* (2012) as it is both an accessible and quality discussion of a feminist approach to configuration. I particularly take her up as in her essay works with configuration to critique the data management and organisational infrastructure projects of medical care institutions, their supporting politics, and the development of their future care infrastructures.

With this genealogy and with Suchman's (ibid) example I inquire into how configuration can be disoriented when put in touch with crip theory? What practices and capacities does a crip Configuration give room for? To do this, I initially set up a framing with Aimi Hamraie's critique of the figure of the user within disability design history and its roots within eugenic industrial design logics that reinforce and shape soft bodies to hard systems. With Hamraie's critique I orient to question how I can challenge the role of the user by distributing the expertise through collective interdependent inquiry. To do this moving to practices of access knowledge formed through design frictions. To do this I reflect on a workshop I ran with NEoN digital[^q8] in Dundee who are a community based organisation focusing on digital access. These workshops in themselves oriented network accessibility, collective action and Feminist server practices. My inquiry approaches these workshops through a first person reflection and focus on my experiences of configuring access for the first time for an event like this, and how I tried to do this (where possible) through interdependent joy, and impact centred care. In this inquiry reflecting on how distributing the role of the expert within my collaborative group made room for us to challenge the capacity of configuration as access making. In this move disorienting the centralised and prescribed plans of normative configuration through the points of friction and impact we felt as a group together.

I then return to Suchman's *Configuration* (2012) to bring it into contact with this inquiry and these experiences. I do this by taking up disability in her critique where it has been left abscent and invalid from its own dialogues. By giving feedback as a disabled voice to her analysis of the configuration of medical care systems and their politics I imagine what capacities the people with disability at the site of impact of these systems might want from configuration. Here I try to make room to figure out how to uplift their capacity to communicate their needs, feelings and agency through Configure-Able methods. This again very disobediently poses Configure-Able as a question and a prompt, so I can ask how Configure-Able is this relation, infrastructure and politics? Am I supported by it? Or held in place? And how can my collaborators and I orient around the frictions we feel and make room for them to inform our collective configuration practices. 

This chapter builds up these methods for the next two sections to work through in practice and situate them to be made knowable within different contexts, collaborations and practices.

[^q8]: https://neondigitalarts.com/
