### Crip intersectionality & Coalition

The Crip relation to intersectionality is one of the most radical approaches to the term, as it is so abundant and overflowing. This is due to the variety of bodies, experiences and struggles that exist under the broad terms of disability. Of course we can turn to Kimberly Crenshaw's definition of intersectionality(Crenshaw 1991; 2015), and it's emergence from groups like the Combahee River Collective, where "interlocking oppressions" form at the cross roads of identities. This in many ways comes from and speaks to disability (even if it is not overtly stated), but I find it more interesting to look at definitions that come from the overt practices of crip studies. This Crip kinship (2021) as Shayda Kafai would term it, is where the abundance of crip communities and interdependence of intersections shine. Kafai's book centres on the practices of Sins Invalid, a crip performance group started by Patty Berne and Leroy Moore. Sins Invalid's work centres expressing crip pleasures, joy and desire without shame and through interdependence. The group's definition of intersectionality is one that I hold dear in my research and repeatedly reflect on in my practice.

> "Sins Invalid defines intersectionality this way: "Simply put, this principle says that we are many things, and they all impact us. We are not only disabled, we are also each coming from a specific experience of race, class, sexuality, age, religious background, geographic location, immigration status, and more. Depending on context, we all have areas where we experience privilege, as well as areas of oppression... We gratefully embrace the nuance that this principle brings to our lived experiences, and the ways it shapes the perspectives we offer.\"\" (Ibid, 31)

This definition of intersectionality by Sins Invalid has helped me to think through how I can come together with collaborators to practice crip freedoms together. To treat these intersections with care and situate our capacities, privileges and desires into and out of alignment. Kafer also notes Robert McRuer's notion of "the non-disabled claim to be crip" (2013, p. 169), which I follow: the possibility of able bodied crips, of those working for the disabled cause, but also maybe those that recognise the "the disability to come." Committing to this wider scope of intersectional disability justice is a key step for any crip studies critique, as accessibly explained in Ella Parry-Davies' *Coming out Crip* (2022) audio piece. She, much like myself, is only "stable" because we live in the UK with a state health system that recognises our needs, and can "treat" them in its medical scoping of our conditions. If we were to live elsewhere, have different nationalities and the relational support those bodies have, we might not even be here, or able to make these statements. With this we embed ourselves within the mutual cause against all intersecting injustices towards disability.

In this dialogue privilege and oppression are situated and negotiated both with intimacy. With this I have asked how can I as a white crip researcher, within academic institutions that are often inaccessible to other intersections of disabled people, use my privilege and oppression in this experience and context to leverage resources and change discourses to position disability justice and radical access as the next action I take at every turn? It also asks me to know that I will never know the experiences of other people with disability and to have patience and commitment, to get in touch with and to learn to communicate our collective sense making. It is to take our sweet crip ass time to get a feel for one another, and affirm each other along that path and journey.

I find it important to think through intersectionality with Kafer's reading of Ashley-X's story. This is because it offers clearly the ways we have to defy the urge to divide disability through its diversity, but to instead centre and care for these bodies on the margins of our discourse. Ashley is born with "static encephalopathy", that leads her doctors to state that "her development never progressed beyond that of an infant", and means that she depends on constant care for her lifetime. The nickname by carers for the condition and similar disabilities is a "pillow angel". Another element of this relation is that her body developed at a "normal" pace, and at age 6 her parents started to be concerned about what puberty would do to her. From consultations with medical "experts" they set up a plan to remove Ashley's uterus and breast buds, as well as put here on a high dose oestrogen regime. The medical "experts" in dialogue with the parents validated this treatment for many reasons, from "saving" Ashley from pains of menopause and puberty, as well as keeping her small so her parents could care and protect her directly, as well as keeping her safe from her own mature body. This meant that the way Ashley and her body were unconsensually treated was to be shaped for the able bodied world around them. They just made her easy to handle as well as protected from relations held in place by ableist and violent sexist politics. I work with Kafer's reading of Ashley for a few reasons, partially as it highlights the ways disabled bodies and experiences are curtailed to fit the hard ableist systems, scales and needs, instead of considering the disabled bodymind's own needs, orientations and desires. It also shares the length that these sorts of ableist actions can be taken to, how far an individual who cannot oppose can be shaped to fit the efficient line, instead of questioning the political relations of the line itself. 

This is highlighted by some mixed views from both medicine and disability studies, whether a person like Ashley-X is too disabled to be disabled, and whether people like them need their own category (Kafer 2013, 67). This division provokes yet another boundary beyond the able/disabled projected axis, forming again new complex parameters that permit questionably dehumanising and violent treatments, such as the one Ashley-X recieved. Kafer asks here what if we place people like Ashley-X not outside of disability discourse, but in the centre of it? When I start to imagine relations and tables to care for these experiences and not determine and invalidate their communication ability, I open myself up to feel and be felt through many yet unknowable ways. Kafer's enactment of crip theory here also centres the joy of this communication. In Ashley-X's case, a double mastectomy and hormone blockers to stop her breasts growing means that Ashley was also disabled from having any pleasure from these removed organs. Their pleasure was never imagined, nor valued in their future, only pain. That just because these experts were did not have the capacity to feel Ashley's expressions of joy, imagine their bodily possibilities of pleasure and agency, or even contemplate their political desires meant that it was these experts who had invalidated Ashley without question or dialogue. Instead of joy or pleasure, the dialogues around Ashley's body focus on pain or discomfort and keeping her secure from strangers, who may also feel this discomfort around her. Reflecting on Ashley-X through crip intersectionality, it can also be understood that this probably only happened to her as she came from a middle class American family that could afford to treat her through these medical industrial institutions. When I highlight her context, I think to how I can build up capacities to be in dialogue with each other. This is also amplified by disability as such a diverse field that includes so many bodyminds in so many different situated social/political relations. Again a crip move is to centre joy and pleasure as an actionable site for us to move from, but this is not to say we silence or ignore the very real pain that exists everyday within our community internationally and intersectionally. It instead aims to move beyond deterministic narratives of disability as painful and awkward and asking what brings us together through joy, comfort and pleasure, even if we are dealing with pain, depression and disabling social relations. Through feeling out these restraints we can start to move towards interdependently asking/demanding how to put our desires in reach of one another?

In Kafer's final chapter, 'Accessible Futures, Future Coalitions', she gives an example of Silvia Yee's work with the Disability rights education and Defense Fund (DreDF) (2013, p. 160). Kafer highlights their work with communities facing the overburden of toxic industries and emissions to show how policy and access put in place to help disabled people in many ways benefits everyone. In the case of DreDF the rights of children with respiratory issues can stop schools and institutions from using potentially harmful chemical pesticides, which can benefit not only the quality of life of everyone in that district but also reduces the ecological impacts. This presents Crip intersectionality as a powerful place where in coalition we can leverage our communities access privileges to not only improve their individual lives but to put a future we all want into reach.

This is where the interdependence of crips also sits as an essential practice. When disabled people struggle to perform as required by a system or to be valued the same as able-bodied people, communities have to help each other manage the gaps. Like I shared in Crip Time & Crip Futures with Kafer's take on Halberstam's "strange temporalities, imaginative life schedules, and eccentric economic practices", all of these crip times are threaded through community schedules, care and interdependence. These acts can range from just consolidating to each other that it is fine that we are sad and mad, that there are gaps in what we are able to do, and being there when we almost fall through them.

In the third episode of the Crip Club podcast[^r18] , which discusses disabled representation in films and media, Clare Baines interviews Jessi Gutch around cancer portrayals (Baines, o. J.). In the podcast they not only talk around what it means for Gutch to not fit into the curative narrative of cancer, but she also shares her experiences of living with a disability whilst working in the film industry. The section I felt was most informative for understandings of intersectionality and interdependence of disabled folk, is when she is talking about working in a majority disabled set. This crip background informed a very different set of expectations and capacities for one another. Gutch says that this formed a space where people could express their needs easily and have them affirmed, where everyone on set knew that this film was important, but not the most important thing. The most important thing is that everyone in this collaboration was feeling as good as they could in their bodyminds and able to do what they wanted to within the collaboration. It was where if they needed more time for this crip stuff they could have it without question.

In my practice as I have started to collaborate with more disabled and crip people I have also felt this same energy, where our wellbeing, capacities and feelings are prioritised over an imagined deterministic outcome or performance of work. I talk more about this in [02.01.04_The crip table](../02_Crip-Tic%20of%20vignettes/02.01.04_The%20crip%20table.md) section, but to touch on one of these collaborations that is of note here was in the creation of the crip infrastructure en-crip-ing time[^r19], a work that imagines and instigates crip times within computational time. I go on to discuss this work in context and in more detail in a later inquiry discussed in [06.03_En-crip-ing_cozy_time](../../06_A%20Cozier%20Configure-Ability/06.03_En-crip-ing_cozy_time.md). Here though one major part of the work was to focus on this type of crip relating between my collaborator Mariana Marangoni and I in the making of the infrastructure. This meant that there were no agile time-lines, roles or outcomes here, just crip times, flexibility and compassion. We both had many demands from life, and very crip times in relation to our bodyminds, but we both understood that for this intersection and crip infrastructure to emerge we both needed these times to prioritise our needs. When one of us had to freeze time to recover or get through something it was okay, we just said, and adjusted the timeline or responsibilities. When one got stressed and anxious about the imposed time-lines, the other didn't combat this, but comforted it. The expectations would be flexible to fit our current capacities, and frictions became places to orient from and to learn each other's needs and approaches. These social politics, ways of relating and maintaining crip infrastructure became important to show in the work. To make it present in the background of the work we added comment sections in the html of the poem, showing our conversations of making time and space for this crip stuff.

Here I return again and again to imagine where we can find joy in rubbing up against each other's supports and restraints in relation, and how this practice is a language we all have to practise and build capacity for independently. It is a language of sensing what each other's capacities, privileges, knowledges, desires and feelings are, and learning to understand them as they unfold. In a crip intersectionality I turn to this movement of coalition and interdependence in action, of bringing together divergent bodies and movements to manifest the change we as a group need now. Crip coalitions in themselves are temporary comings together of differing politics, structures, goals and needs to configure the social and technical infrastructure for change and affirmation we need now. In Ren Britton's Coalition Bouquet[^r20], they trace many of these histories and the improvised technologies, politics and communities that came together to blossom crip change together. Here these often complex, divergent and temporary coalitions can move beyond the predetermining confines of pain, which they may be in, to where they can reorient the issues of intersectional access to make room to hold the possibility of joyous direct action and change.

In this research, this has been taken up as working between different departments, institutions, collective, projects, coalitions, mailing lists, servers and etherpads. Most importantly though, for me as a person with fatigue, chronic pain and other complicating factors, this has meant pushing for accessible ways of managing and maintaining collective practices, and trying to introduce a disorienting crip axis to (dis)align with. This inquiry has been about intersectionally and interdependently reorienting practices, figures, timelines, expectations, infrastructures and priorities. In particular, inquiring into how I can question my own role in these dynamics to support crip politics, both in our organisation and by making them accessible to collaborators. I am also taking this up in response to broader questions of interdependence within the networks, infrastructures, and politics these  collaborations manifest and are held in place by.

[^r18]: <https://thecripclub.co.uk/podcast/>
[^r19]: <https://time.cozy-cloud.net/>
[^r20]: https://lorenbritton.com/projects/coalition-bouquet
