## The Crip Table

Here I turn to the crip table, and in doing so aim to extend Ahmed's understanding of what is in reach with contemporary crip theory. Ahmed is in many ways an amazing commentator on disability and anti-ableism, but here I turn to Alison Kafer's table, and to her work with her *Feminist, Queer, Crip*. Kafer's formation of the Political/Relational model of disability, and discussion on Crip Time as a concept makes room for me to question through more focused crip lens how "bodies take shape through tending toward objects that are reachable" (Ahmed, 2006). In doing so I am thinking through how politics and relations form and hold disability in place, and in turn how through community, interdependence and collective access in action can make room for disability's indeterminacy to manifest many other futures together. I also inquire into Kafer's figuring of crip time not only as a way to hold many indeterminate bodies, but also as a way to understand and navigate the scoping of actions taken in this research. I reflect on the many scales that collaborative labours take, especially around manifesting collective infrastructures, from the infinite small meetings and feelings that I could never capture, to scales of maintenance that could have ended yesterday, or could stretch beyond my lifetime. With this, I also slip onto Kafer's table the *Crip Technoscience Manifesto* (2019) by Aimi Hamraie and Kelly Fritsch, to re-orient these dialogues towards social and technical infrastructures and science technology studies (STS). Here I orient the crip as a social and technical hacker, reforming and manifesting infrastructures through direct action, affective feedback and refusal that centre crip knowledge and experience within making and doing. With this I ask what does it take for crips to make and sit cozily at tables of disability justice, access and life affirmation within and around institutions and infrastructures of research, computation and care? I want to approach these questions with others, within our capacity, with passion, pleasure and joy, asking: where/how can we make room to imagine and practise other political relations of liberation and affirmation, now?!

