### Sedimentation

Ahmed also extends the bodily horizon to time, thinking of how repetitions, sedimentations and tendencies shape bodies. She makes an analogy here with a lump on her finger from where she grips her pen, where her finger has built up and sedimented its form in relation to the pen. Ahmed sums it up simply as "what we ''do do'' affects what we ''can do.''" (Ibid, 59). She refuses the hegemonic causality of a focus on doing as a singular straight direction. Instead, she suggests orientation is an expanding of a certain direction, that may relationally restrict others, but is not determinative. Her definition makes it possible for orientations and their sedimentations to not be singular in focus, and to make room form them to be navigated and approached within complex relations on our horizons and to take queer paths between them. When this approach arrives at the regressive mono-logics of institutional efficiencies, it disobediently opens up the many other paths and directions that are contingent.

Ahmed also discusses RSI as a potential effect of inheritance, sedimentation, time, repetition, and the determined table. RSI is the strain and pain caused from bodies repetitively conforming to a tables that does not care for them and figures them to be disabled before they begin. Here, bent over, hunched and aching as I work, in this cramped spot, is the perfect time to stretch out into Ahmed's queering of orientation. With RSI, I overtly feel how my body wants to be orientated[^r6], but I am contorted by inflexible hard systems, infrastructures and relations, through an institutional table that can only orientate my towards an ideology of efficient work. Through a queer orientation, Ahmed prompts me to listen to my bodies, my aches and my axes, to feel what I tend towards or need to retreat from.

It is helpful to question these relations of RSI through Ahmed's concept of inheritance[^r7], thinking through not only where these projections of contorted bodies and relations have come from, but also what they perpetuate. What are the horizons of these inherited relations, and what is reachable from these positions? When the straight/atomic home is orientated so that there is a "requirement that we bring home the "other sex" ... ''same race"" (Ibid, 127), then it is orientated to be self-perpetuating, autopoetic, and demanding a "good likeness". This orientation of a home demands that everyone be "in line" and maintain the norms and order of things, making sure that the relations and hierarchies "line up" between generations. Ahmed gives an example of drawing on tracing paper, copying lines over, and the sophisticated apparatus that philosophers, researchers, designers and institutional tables maintain to keep lines straight by "holding" things in place. These institutional apparatuses often smooth over any lumps, bumps, pains and aches that could queer the line and make it deviate. With Ahmed's approach I am empowered in some ways when I am disoriented by these enforced, inherited and sedimented lines, as this disorientation is a generative position of sense making, and to re-orient towards other tables and practices to sediment new queer and crip lines of affinity.

[^r6]: Mine is often in bed.
[^r7]: "Such an inheritance can be rethought in terms of orientations: we inherit the reach ability of some objects, those that are ''given'' to us or at least are made available to us within the family home." (Ahmed 2006, 126)
