### Cripping Technoscience

For "cripping" technology, Cielo Saucedo and Nat Decker's _Cripping_Computer_Graphics_ (2023) which I touch upon later when [[07.02.00_Cozy_Intention]] for the Cozy-Cloud server. I highlight this essay here though as they are working with Dr. Carrie Sandahl terming of "cripping" (2003, 37), as a way to feel out in action the ableist assumptions and inaccessible norms of computer graphics and the relations/politics of technoscience more broadly by bringing embodied knowledges and practices of crips in touch with them.

Bringing it back to Kafer's work In *Feminist, Queer, Crip*, she is cripping technoscience by inquiring into the figure of the cyborg and orienting it around disability on two points of contact/impact. Initially, she questions how media represents disabled dependence on technology as real-life cyborgs, leading to the "rise of the cyborg" as the unquestionable and naturalised cure for disabled folks. From here she then moves towards a crip critique of Donna Haraway's *Cyborg Manifesto*, away from the naturalised cyborg\~crip relations and towards practising relations that challenge the militarised imaginaries of cyborgs and disabled bodies through a disorienting and disobedient crip approach. This refusal, not of these technologies, but of how their imaginaries are oriented, politicised and enacted, is key to my disobedient crip research into technology.

Kafer's media analysis of cyborgs shows that they are again sedimented without question to be a cure for impairment, to make 'normal' disabled bodies. These narratives, as raised by Kafer's analyses of Chris Hables Gray's *Cyborg Citizen*, lead to Gray, an able-bodied science studies scholar, taking up the late *Superman* actor Christopher Reeve, without his knowledge or consent, as a heroic cyborg leading the way for the disabled community. Gray suggests that the "crippling of superman" and Reeve becoming dependent on multiple machines and devices is one of the best examples of a "true" cyborg. Gray states that Reeve is a hero as he leads the way for other disabled bodies to be cured through assistive technologies. Gray's text in a number of ways undermines the disabled experience, as it doesn't make room for Reeve or people with disabilities, and more specifically quadriplegic people, to speak to their use of and relation to access and assisted living technologies. Kafer also points out that Gray overlooks and cannot imagine that there is a wider disabled community than just the celebrity in focus, Reeve, or that these communities have a long history and culture of living with assistive technologies that might be informative. Kafer also shares how his use of language often refers to people with disabilities as "invalids" or "patients", conflating their whole identity and personhood with an injury or the medical identification of their condition. Sitting here, Kafer figures Gray as a prime example of how the disabled bodies are oriented when deployed in cyborg theory. In one of many other examples, Annie Potts' "taxonomy of cyborgs" places Reeves in a list with fictional cyborgs, orienting him as less human and more cyborg, a construction rather than a complex, multifaceted person. In these cyborg curing narratives, Kafer shows how this signalling of disabled people as the truest cyborgs locks in and has sedimented the path so much that a cyborg itself becomes a signal for disability, abnormality and difference. The cyborg\~crip, the crip\~cyborg.

By contrast, Kafer reads Haraway's figure of a "cyborg" in the *Cyborg Manifesto* (2006) as problematic in some aspects, but an empowering plurality to think through when approaching with feminist STS. The problematic notions of the Harraway's cyborg are somewhat well known; for example, its homogenising of experiences ny taking an imperializing approach that dictates one figure of an identity for whole groups of people (Kafer 2013, 114). Kafer, however, offers a closer crip critique of Haraway's cyborg, tracing how she has also fallen into the sedimented route that portrays disabled bodies, or as she determines them "paraplegics and other severely handicapped people", to be exemplary or true cyborgs. In this move, Haraway makes a number of questionable choices. She addresses these imagined people with disabilities in terms of "handicap" and describes them as "paraplegic", which reinforces the individualism and diagnosis of the medical model. Kafer also points out this critique of naming languages was fairly common discourse within that era of disability studies, of which Haraway was likely aware. Haraway also homogenizes experiences of disabled people like she does for other identities, but in doing so displaces the affective relations to technologies these different disabled positions and experiences make room for. She essentially does not include any affective perspectives on what it feels like to be a person who is disabled and (inter)dependent with/on technologies and infrastructures.

Even though Haraway's "cyborg" is in many ways flawed, especially in relation to intersectional disability, Kafer still finds it to be generative from a crip position. In particular, the cyborg can also figure the defiant feminist care in and against flawed and often violent technoscience. The cyborg finds joy in acts of practising radical care otherwise. Kafer disorient the cyborg as a fluid figure that can make room for us to figure out other paths between people with disabilities and the technologies that support them. She refigures the cyborg as a place of embodied crip futures, on their/our terms, validating and tracing a plurality of paths we take with technology together. It is this focus on how the cyborg makes room for crip studies to cross paths with other disciplines and experiences that is what makes this a generative space for her. Kafer gives examples of different cyborg intersections within disability studies, such as Dean Spade's research into the medicalisation of transgender identities. Spade navigates trans experiences of gender identity disorder (GID), which is used to validate care and medication, but also acts to reinforce the binary of gender as well as prolong and delay care (Kafer 2013, 124). GID also leads to tensions, with potentially ableist undertones and a medicalisation of queer identities, where needing to self-identify and be validated as having a "condition" or disorder to be treated as trans could lead to gender identity being read as an individual handicap instead of political and relational issue. Spade also reads this medicalisation of GID as reproducing the "curing" narrative, where specific treatments can resolve the individual "problem" of gender identity, and can be industrialised. Kafer works with Spade and others here to trouble these notions by stating "that neither medical technologies nor diagnoses can be characterized as purely oppressive or politically neutral" (Ibid, 125). This disorientation feels the individual within the relational, situated, and makes room for the cyborg and their bodily horizons to be read as "maps of power and identity". In doing this, the cyborg also makes space for "affinity-through-difference"[^r21], where disabled people as a very diverse community can come together and lay with the disorientation of these many contradictory bodily maps and horizons. With this Kafer figures crips to be cyborgs not because of their bodily relations and dependence on assistive technology and technical infrastructure, that have been naturalised to signal disability, but because of the political practices we disobediently undertake. These acts of refusal are the tracings of our own queer and crip lines, the feeling and coalescing of other crip techno bodies, tables and relations. Some examples of this kind of rubbing up against and disobeying technology, whilst living through it, is shared in Laura Forlano's many works critiquing the cyborg as a concept. In both her *Hacking the Feminist Disabled Body* (2016) and *Living Intimately with Machines* (2023) she foregrounds the disabled experience of technology and relation to it as a place of generative friction. If oriented this way it can make room for other perspectives, methods and ethics to be present and felt at these tables. Kafer concludes her analysis by vulnerably opening up the idea that the cyborg within this plurality is also not the only figure for disability, as some disabled experiences may relate more and some less to these technological entanglements. However, she does encourage attending to these sites where disability is pressent within discourse but not felt or made room for. Much like Kafer's intervention into Haraway's cyborg, I also take this approach later in [05.02.02_Cripping Configuration](../../05_Configure-Able_Methods/05_entries/05.02.02_Cripping%20Configuration.md) with Lucy Suchmans _Configuration_ (2012) to critique the ways disabled bodies can disorient the horizons and practices I take toward collective organisation and network infrastructures. 

#### Crip (Technoscience) Manifesto

Kafer follows up on *Feminist, Queer and Crip* (2013) with a talk called *Health Rebels: A Crip Manifesto for Social Justice* (2017) as well as _Manifesting Manifestos_ (2023). In the Health Rebels talk she covers many of the bases of her work that I have covered elsewhere, but through other informative anecdotes, experiences and relations through which to imagine this work. The focus in this talk is coalition, of cross-issue collaboration and working within difference together. In the talk Kafer appears to refigure her crip cyborg into a number of other figures, such as "health rebels", "the checklist", and "the manifesto". Health rebels play out somewhat similarly to the cyborg, as the defiant crips in the face of the medical industrial complex and institutional ableism. In coalition, living crip as method, multiple and indeterminate, forming frictions at our many horizons and  intersection with these generalised and prescribed norms. Disobediently disoriented, aligning to the crip axes. The checklist represents the rubric, matrix or limited drop-down selection that indeterminate disabled bodies are (in)validated through. I discuss my experiences of this further in [02.02_The_computing_table](../../02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes/02_entries/02.02_The_computing_table.md) section, where efficient logics determine static lines that are used to invalidate needs, experiences, practises and knowledges. Building on her earlier troubling of the crip cyborg as the only figure to live by, Kafer loosens and refigures the manifesto to be a place of wiggle room, of playing out our dreams, testing out futures, of finding gaps and frictions in these manifestings as generative places to write other crip manifestos and imagine other futures from action. To do this she turns to queer theory, as we could easily to Ahmed, to reflect on how a manifesto (or an orientation) moves along a horizon, foreclosing and limiting some relations whilst putting some others in reach. For Kafer, quoting Audre Lorde, the manifesto is "believing, working for what has not yet been while living fully in the present now."[^r22] Here it acts as a place to live with uncertainty and practise actioning and inquiring into crip methods for indeterminate futures. 

Kafer later follows this talk up with her essay _Manifesting Manifestos_ (2023) where she takes an even closer reading of this writing format. In this essay she traces their problematic past within patriarchal modernist thought that unifies bodies, but also the sedimented critique of feminist manifestos that call the mad and crazed. In this Kafer disobediently steps into this critque to question how the manifesto makes room for this crips to be mad with and through their madness. With Breanne Fahs, Kafer also proposes this crazed manifesto as a format that "invites disorientation" (2020, 5) as it makes room for a distortion of time and a projection of bodies into other futures not yet in reach, but desired now. She also offers with Kafer (2016) how manifestos are a place to iterate from, adapt, change and find holes in our plans and manifestings. Here again not invalidating, hidding or trying to cure these flaws but, as she reflects on with her students manifesto, it is about making change through embracing and being oriented through these many situated flaws on the plurality of bodily horizons I come into contact with. In this research I ask alongside Kafer how, through a plurality of manifestos, can crip studies and disability justice can take on struggles we may have never imagined before? And how can we try to make room for people and relations that have not yet been imagined or thought of at these sedimented institutional tables yet?

In this research, I iterate on from (but still with) Kafer's plurality of crazed manifestos to work more closely with Aimi Hamraie and Kelly Fritsch's *Crip Technoscience Manifesto* (2019). This is to orient my research more closely towards critiques of technoscience, but also to highlight crip manifesting and manifestos in practice. Their manifesto reiterates Kafer's work in a similar way to what I have discussed here, but situates it through more specifically STS relevant examples and positions. Key examples that are relevant to this work include ADAPT activist forming and shaping physical infrastructures by pouring ramps and smashing curbs, as well as Alice Wong's *Disability Visibility Project* forming social and media representation by and for disabled people. Both examples, and many other crip sociotechnical hackings they touch on, manifest forms of direct action, of making change and caring for community infrastructures where institutions invalidate the political/relational forms through which they perpetuate ableism. Hamraie and Fritsch orient the *Crip Technoscience Manifesto* itself through commitments, manifesting a crip technoscience specifically through direct actions, embodied protocols and political demands. They do this to not only make this manifesto clear and accessible, but also to project into the future the embodied actions and relations that could make room for crip discourses and politics in practices to flourish in relation to technoscience.

I discuss these commitments below to highlight key orientations this work is building from.

> "Crip technoscience centres the work of disabled people as knowers and makers."

This positions the everyday practices and experiences of disabled people as that which orients them to best know their bodyminds and relations to technologies and society. They work with a few examples of crip designers to show how this plays out in action. Alice Loomer, for instance, shows us how wheelchair maintenance and hacking by the person using it, even though not a frictionless experience, forms practices and knowledges of technology that are situated in relation to that body and its horizon. They quote Loomer saying, "I have equipment that fits me", offering how disabled knowing/making through embodied expertise of technologies can make room for these bodies within technoscience. This is not to glorify the Do-It-Yourself practices of disabled people, as some may not be able (or want) to do "it", but it is to uplift the "world-dismantling and world-building labors" that "misfitting" in the world as a crip means and to orient from that disorientation.

> "Crip technoscience is committed to access as friction."

Friction for Hamraie and Fritsch represents the refusal to fit in of crip technoscience, of wanting more than the slots you are offered in the determined checklist, and taking actions and making frictions to make that room. They lay with the "non-compliant user", from Ray Lifchez and Barbara Winslow's book *Design for Independent Living* (1979), who use technology as a friction against an inaccessible environment to highlight the change needed[^r23]. They also discuss Collin Kennedy, an activist and cancer patient, who refused capitalist time around care by spraying expanding foam into hospital car park meters. In doing so, Kennedy disabled the capacity of these infrastructures to monitor and charge patients visiting the hospital, and so forming new possibilities and imaginaries of crip time through direct action forming friction on the sedimented norms. When thinking of frictions, I also want to return to the section on [02.02.03_Crip_intersectionality](02.02.03_Crip_intersectionality.md) with Ashley-X, and think again about the possibility of curtailed joys and pleasures that can come from the frictions of our disabled lives. With crip technoscience this also aims to ask how direct actions, material transformations, practice of maintenance, the rubbing up against restrictions, and the frictions felt from these actions can make room for joy, pleasure and abundance. How could Kennedy wiggling the nose of the expanding foam can into the ticket machine to make room for crip time in a car park, bring joy to not only him, but also to others who were visiting that day. Those who now did not need to rush, or keep in-line and on time? These friction-enabling experiences of crips slips beyond institutional and capitalist time and offers glimpses of a future we can wiggle into with and for one another. With "access as friction" we can embrace the struggles of making change where we need it, of getting in the way, and disorienting conversations and in doing so reconfiguring the infrastructures and institutions around us, possibly even with unknowable joy and pleasure.

> "Crip technoscience is committed to interdependence as political technology."

In the scoping of both feminist technoscience and the political/relational model of disability, how we work together around/for/with technology is itself a type of technology and method that we must orient around and practice. In crip technoscience and wider crip studies, there is a dedication to practising this through interdependence, focusing on how our capacities build up to together, and how we can make room for each other. What politics come from these places, what emerges from the ground up and can radically change the ways we imagine, embody and practice potential future politics now? One example Hamraie and Fritsch quote which resonates with this work is that of Mia Mingus's "access intimacy" (2017), which is hard to describe but easily felt. Access intimacy attends to how much someone 'gets' another's access needs, how they make room for them to express these feelings, even if it's stating you don't know what they are right now. Access intimacy as a concept makes room for me to imagine intimate ways of relating to others and how we can care for one another's access needs. It is to be open to the unknown and practice getting to know other's access needs.

> "Crip technoscience is committed to disability justice."

Manifesting crip technoscience that engages in disability rights goes beyond the assimilationist ideologies of mainstream accessibility to highlight how interconnected struggles, and finding justice in them, can make room for even more radical practices for crips within sociotechnical systems. When working for disability justice, crips refuse painful assistive technologies which only normalise their bodies to make others more comfortable. Disability justice also aligns this work with many intersections of disability studies to form a crip technoscience that is informed by and practices with working class, black, brown and indigenous disabled knowledges. It is one where we vouch for crip wholeness and life affirmation as places we can radically challenge the economics and politics of ableist powers that see us as broken or invalid. For this holding the impossible they turn to Eli Clare (2017), whose work suggests we can be broken and yet whole, imperfect, but valued, and holding a generative tension between the (not) opposites of these things.

Hamraie and Fritsch also engage with the work of Sins Invalid and other crip artists and hackers to think through what Alice Sheppard (2019) calls "cultural-aesthetic technoscience". This is where they bring together new assemblages and aesthetics for communicating these complex relations of wholeness. Sins Invalid, for example, combine performance, technological aids and films doused in unashamed crip joy and pride, not hiding, but embracing and putting on show the potentials for love, grief and playfulness in a very serious but joyous space. As these thinkers and artists share, joy and pleasure are not the only way to achieve or approach disability justice as they can undermine the complex relations of disability globally, which work through oppression and debilitation as politics. Instead, engaging in and making room for this contradictory wholeness of disability justice is what shapes a crip technoscience that coalesces and dances with these sedimented tables through resistance. It is where I can build from the non-innocent, from the disabling continuation/aftermath of war, Big Tech extraction, petrochemical and medical industrial complex, to work with these embodied and plural crip experiences, knowledges and practices to form other ways of caring for each other, our technologies and our communities.

Crip manifestos are multiple in the ways that we can understand them coming together through action. They can move from stating principles for their organisation or community, such as Sins Invalid's *10 Principles of Disability Justice*[^r24], Johana Hedva's *Access Rider* (2019) and Healing Justice London's *community agreements*[^r25]. They can also take up imagining infrastructural needs and transforming norms to a crip axis, which we can see with MELT's *Access Server*[^r26]  as well as Carmen Papalia's *Pain Pals*[^r27] and many mentioned earlier in this section. They can also take the form of literary fabulations and manifestos, such as Kevin Gotkin's *Artists in Presidents* speech encouraging us to get cozy[^r28], Ren Britton and Helen Pritchard's call *For Careful Slugs: Caring for Unknowing in CS (Computer Science)* (2022) as well as Sophia Maier, V. Jo Hsu, Christina V Cedillo and M. Remi Yergeau's call for us to *Get the Frac In!* (2020). These crip forms of manifesting, of making principles and agreements, of forming and imagining infrastructures and room we need now, and of telling stories of futures and relations with us in and yet to unfold, are what this research orients from. It inquires through how In my collaborations we can collectively imagine and action these other sets of politics, protocols and ways of relating from the sites of impact and friction. It is to make room for us to feel out from our embodied disorientations and towards community led technology. In this movement I have taken up disobedient action research as my methodology, as the next chapter highlights. In this work, my research is performed across scales, from internally inner arcs of embodied change and practice to movement that aim to go beyond by becoming intimate with these institutional limits and norms.

[^r21]: Who Kafer with Chela Sandoval, lament over the often misplaced genealogy of "affinity-through-difference" to Haraway, instead of to the contemporary indigenous writings (Kafer 2013, 117)
[^r22]: Full quote: "One of the hardest things to accept is learning to live within uncertainty and neither deny it nor hide behind it. Most of all, to listen to the messages of uncertainty without allowing them to immobilize me, nor keep me from the certainties of those truths in which I believe. I turn away from any need to justify the future- to live in what has not yet been. Believing, working for what has not yet been while living fully in the present now." ― Audre Lorde
[^r23]: "Illustrating this with an image of a powerchair user wheeling against traffic on a street without curb cuts (1979, p. 153). This technology-enabled movement against the flow of traffic marks anti-assimilationist crip mobility: not an attempt to integrate (as in the liberal approach to disability rights), but rather to use technology as a friction against an inaccessible environment."(Hamraia and Fritsch 2019, 11)
[^r24]: https://sinsinvalid.org/10-principles-of-disability-justice/
[^r25]: https://healingjusticeldn.org/methodology/community-agreements/
[^r26]: http://meltionary.com/antiableisttech/accessserver/
[^r27]: https://leonardo.info/criptech/eaat/pain-pals
[^r28]: https://www.artistsinpresidents.com/kevin-gotkin
