### Political/Relational Model

Alison Kafer's *Feminist, Queer, Crip* is a foundational work for understanding how disability can be analysed from a crip perspective and approach. It looks to complicate the way that disability is represented and mediated, moving on from both the medical model and social model of disability, to one that can hold the diversity of intersections queer and disabled bodies experience as well as making room to critique the wider implications of a cure narrative. In the medical model of disability, as Kafer notes, quoting Simi Linton, "the proper approach to disability is to "'treat' the condition and the person with the condition rather than 'treating' the social processes and policies that constrict disabled people's lives."" (2013, 5). The medical model treats the sickness or "abnormality" of disabled people on an individual basis and in doing so ignores and invalidates the background to their potentially disabling social relation. In doing this the medical model also ignores the experiences of disabled people whose bodies are not only most affected by these orientations, but also have the affective and situated knowledges that are essential to their nuanced affirming care. The medical model sees that "solving the problem of disability, then, means correcting, normalising, or eliminating the pathological individual" (Ibid, 5). A cure here can mean returning to being "able bodied" but it can also be interpreted as society being cured of disabled bodies. This medical model draws a line that forces disabled people to one side, and off of the table systematically through isolating them from it financially (Ibid, 39), as well as through eugenic regimes of genetic selection (Ibid, 76) and curing ideologies of technological enhancement (Ibid, 107).

A later and more accepted model within the disabled community is the social model, which aims to draw attention to the social aspects and the background of disability that the medical model invalidates. It does this through an 'impairment/disability' axis, which makes room to understand what a person is capable of and how a society/system can limit their abilities relationally. To do this the social model defines impairment as "any physical or mental limitation" (Ibid, 7) and argues that "disability signals the social exclusions based on, and social meanings attributed to, that impairment" (Ibid, 7). Kafer sums it up simply: "impairments aren't disabling, social and architectural barriers are" (Ibid, 7). This is in many ways generative for re-approaching disability's "problems", moving them from the individual to societal, infrastructural and political scales.

With Susan Wendell, Kafer queries the social model by asking, "how far one must be able to walk to be considered able-bodied" (Ibid, 7). While seemingly simple, this question opens many political and relational queries. What are the geographies (are there smooth walkways on flat-ish land?), economics (could they afford the walking aid or pain relief tablets?) community relations (was their friend free and able to help, or community carer available?), politics (are their medications legal?) and infrastructures (were they able to connect to a community, was an input valid on a form?). These questions move the approach away from a standardised test on an individual, and into understanding the nuances of disabling political dynamics on people's abilities, relationally and societally. Wendell and Kafer consider both impairment and disability to be socially constructed, as bodies are only seen as disabled in relation to sedimented "able" ones. Returning to Ahmed, we could ask how Crips line up to the determinate straight able-bodied line or axis? And Crips would probably respond, "huh? what axis?", or, maybe on another day, feeling more provocative, "We don't have to!"

Kafer also notes that the social model, when taken to an extreme, inverts the orientation of the medical model, and in doing so can invalidate people with disabilities. An example is of those disabled people who acknowledging their pain or other impairments may have a desire for a cure to them, but this in the social model could be read as playing into the medical models' narrative of a cure they are trying to counter. In this inversion it can also overlook the fact that some disabilities, such as chronic health, pain and fatigue, will not change no matter how much we change social relations. Along this thread the social model also negates to contemplate how a cure narrative towards a particular (abled) kind of body can affect people who might not identify as disabled or be "impaired". Kafer gives the examples of anti-ageing creams that can play on the anxieties of getting old as well as growth hormones for shorter children to make them "normal" height. Both can be understoon as ableist and reliant on a curative model. From this orientation, we can understand how the social model orients disability to be delineated along fine lines, and in many ways undermines the radical knowledges of disabled experiences and the relations they can put in reach.

Kafer proposes the political/relational model to reorient the social model's impairment/disability axis. Kafer's model asks what immediate changes to relations not only validate, but also ease and make room to build up the capacities of people living with experiences of disability, neurodiversity, chronic illness and pain "under any circumstances" (Ibid, 41), which I go on to discuss further in the next section on Crip Time & Crip Futures.

In action, navigating disability through these models can be quite sad, as we understand how overwhelming these social and institutional politics and pressures are on our crip bodyminds, and how violent, forceful and invalidating they are in action. However, by making room to navigate and analyse these institutional tables and their bodily horizons from a crip orientation, we are able to set out our own paths to move around the sinkholes and vacuums they hold in place to erase our lives, experiences and voices from the discourse about disabled people and our place in the future. In this research this takes the form of questioning how I have collectively organise around and with technology, away from curative narratives of efficiency and control within these institutional politics, and instead towards collective care, maintenance and access towards our own crip social and technical infrastructures.

