## Orienting the table

In Ahmed's Queer Phenenology, she keenly defines orientation[^13] as a way to situate the dialogue of direction. This move changes the scoping from a generalised and centralised dictation of direction that wider modernist philosophy denotes, to a situated and relational navigation of bodies. She does this by queering Husserl's figure of a table, his orientation towards it and his knowing of what is behind him as he does so (Ibid, 29). To do this she positions his back, and backgrounding of things, as the point of deviation that a queer phenomenology takes up in its analysis. At this inversion of direction and position sits the ability to wonder what is behind, to meander and imagine otherwise. Ahmed calls this "turning the tables"[^14], where we situate a table by letting its background sink in and by caring for the work and maintenance that is often ''hidden from view\"(Ibid, 63) to make room for these queer, crip, social and domestic tables to be generative discourses within research and knowledge creation. This is where tables become many, where they deviate from straight standardised and projected 'known' formulas and become complex assemblages, with histories, sedimentations and horizons.

The "bodily horizon"(Ibid, 55) is key to understanding Ahmed's figure, as it asks, what do we orient ourselves towards? What do we bring towards ourselves from our horizon, and what objects do we let slip from view and out of reach? When we acknowledge we have limits to our perception, that we cannot see the whole environment, image or figure, we must be in a context. Ahmed's horizon queers phenomenology's horizon and encourages us to consider our own orientation, situate ourselves within our bodily horizon of social and domestic relations and ask which orientations of space make our bodies feel out of place. With Nirmal Puwar's 'Space Invaders', Ahmed shows how non-white bodies in places oriented for white bodies makes them feel "out of place" (Ibid, 133). She says that these bodies are disoriented by the society and people around them: "people blink and then look again" (Ibid, 135). For her this disorientation is a queer slanting of space, disorientations of bodies and that of bodies into objects. Ahmed poses disorientation[^15] as the point of failure, in which a body is placed into a form with which they do not fit, where they are objectified, and their needs are held out of reach.

When we "feel out of place" and disorientation is the norm, Ahmed poses the movement of being in retreat, of moving away from, whilst facing. In this retreat, she says, there is queer joy as we look back at a past fading, into a future which can make room for "the condition of possibility for another way of dwelling in the world" (Ibid, 178). In feeling out of place at, disoriented by and in retreat from institutional tables this research(er) asks what it means to move within reach of another way of dwelling at these tables of computation, collaboration and institution, and specifically one that cares for and affirms crip and queer lives, experiences and knowledges.

[^13]: "Adding ''orientation'' to the picture gives a new dimension to the critique of the distinction between absolute space and relative space, also described as the distinction between location and position." (Ahmed 2006, 12)
[^14]: "In a way, a queer phenomenology is involved in the project of ''turning the tables'' on phenomenology by turning toward other kinds of tables. Turning the tables would also allow us to return, a loving return we might even say, to the objects that already appear within phenomenology, such as Husserl's table, now so worn. Such tables, when turned, would come to life as something to think ''with'' as well as ''on.'" (Ahmed 2006, 63)
[^15]: "Disorientation involves failed orientations: bodies inhabit spaces that do not extend their shape, or use objects that do not extend their reach. At this moment of failure, such objects ''point'' somewhere else or they make what is ''here'' become strange."(Ahmed 2006, 160)
