## Conclusion

This chapter has shared how my research is orientated through a crip and queer approach that aims to trouble the sedimented ableist norms of computing practices and technoscience through a disobedient queer axis of disorienting collectice Crip manifestings. With this approach, the research makes room for my collaborators and I to be in touch with these network infrastructures. Doing this we focused on where we felt slips, slants, gaps and frictions to orient our approaches to the normative logics within computing. This was to question how these points of impact give us an ambivalent relation for us to imagine and practise crip futures from now. In coalescing Ahmed, Kafer, Hamraie and Fritsch, as well as many others, together in a crooked crip line for this chapter, I have formed a framework that aims to overflow from these sites of friction. This is to not avoid or invalidate these disconnects and misfittings, but to think through how they can inform other orientations from a position of radical Crip intersectionality, interdependence and disability justice. Working from these crip slants, naps and f(r)ictions are places that can build up our collective capacities for us to move off from the sedimented straight line of inheritance, break open the normative pipeline, and its determined relations, and make room for this research to question how my collaborators and I want to approach relational "problems" we are seated at together ourselves.

To disorient these tables and relational norms I later turn to the [02.01.04_The crip table](../02_Crip-Tic%20of%20vignettes/02.01.04_The%20crip%20table.md) as an axis of radical access, interdependence and coalition where I informed my practise and research. Moving towards this crip table from the other sedimented norms of [02.01.02_The computing table](../02_Crip-Tic%20of%20vignettes/02.01.02_The%20computing%20table.md), [02.01.03_The operating table](../02_Crip-Tic%20of%20vignettes/02.01.03_The%20operating%20table.md) and [02.01.01_The research table](../02_Crip-Tic%20of%20vignettes/02.01.01_The%20research%20table.md), I orient to move away from these ableist and violent relations, and towards infrastructural politics of crip care and affirmation. This crip axis makes room for this research to take on coalition, collective practice and of movement making as a core practice, thinking through how social relations of infrastructures are political technologies that we can coalesce (in) together.

Alongside [02_Crip-Tic of vignettes](../02_Crip-Tic%20of%20vignettes/02_Crip-Tic%20of%20vignettes.md), this chapter aims to provide fertile methodological ground for crip manifestings to be approached through disobedient actions and within computing. This methodology and its iterating plurality of manifestings will unfold more throughout the thesis, but moves to put more digital network practice within reach of crip theory discourse. This is to think about how we can foster and centre crip practices and politics of radical care within our local community and collective configuration practices, but also to think about how these politics can overflow and make room and flexibility in these hard systems for other lines to be emegred elsewhere by others also facing their own frictions with efficient, white supremacist and curative politics. This approach aims to form collective politics that do not determine or prescribe methods and approaches, but makes room to contemplate how I as a collective technical practitioner can become intimate with collaborators access needs. Here making wiggle room for us all to be experts, practitioners and knowers/makers of our own (life affirming) infrastructures, and in doing so gaining agency and capacities at the tables we have always been present at, but were never allowed to get to grips with.




























