# Disability justice and life affirmation flipping the table

Now is the time for me to try and approach a crip table. This chapter makes present how this work approaches this crip table and axis and  inquire into analyse the institutional tables I am engaged in as a disabled practitioner and researcher. It gives some depth to why these tables have been impossible for me to approach as a crip, let alone get a grip on. This isn't because the physical institutional setup have barriers that stops me from accessing them, nor does my chronic health often debilitate me, and fortunately my care system somewhat validates my disability[^x1]. Nor is it that I am incapable of doing "quality" research. It is because of the political/relations of these institutions that burn me (out) every time I am in touch with them. It is because when I come to these tables they cut away at my capacities. Here, as I will go on to discuss further, I am thinking with Ahmed's notation of sedimentation and the determined orientations of work that result in repetitive strain injury (RSI) from bodies being held in place, and which reinforce work to break them before they start.

When I come to these institutional tables I am neither willing nor able to follow these exhaustive straight paths they set, as with my fatigue I will need a nap on route, maybe make a stew, go for a walk to digest and take a bath to replenish and care for my bodymind. By the time I am ready and able, the path has often grown over, or I might have forgotten exactly what I was doing or where I am (going)[^x2]. These crip lines are deviating orientations of survival and of life affirmation. What does it mean to be able to lay with these very queer and crip paths? Where can we hold this crip stuff and make times that celebrate them as places of generative access in conversation, instead of invalidating, problematising and backgrounding them from the tables where they have always been present but "hidden from view"?

Through discussing these backgrounds this chapter acts as the positioning statement of the research. It aims to contextualise the research within queer and crip theory, specifically Sara Ahmed's work (2006) on Queer Phenomenology; Alison Kafer's work (2013; 2017; 2021; 2023) on crip time, her political/relational model of disability, and her crazed crip manifestings. I also orient this towards my focus of technoscience with Aimi Hamraie and Kelly Fritsch's Manifesto (2019), Hamraie's wider work of access friction and access knowledge. This framework is used throughout the thesis to not only frame the analysis but also situate the work from my experiences of institutional relations to access, computing and care as a crip & trans teacher, coder, collective instigator and researcher. Following Sara Ahmed I aim to offer an approach to how "bodies take shape through tending toward objects that are reachable" (2006), specifically how this shaping takes place when approaching accessible futures for crip and disabled folks at the institutional tables of research, computing and collective practice. Building from Ahmed's figure and framework of the table as an "orientation device" this chapter asks what are these tables I am approaching, and why do I (often) retreat instead of taking a seat? It makes room to question what the normative and inherited political/relations of these institutional tables are, and how crip as method and situated experience, practice and knowledges makes room for us to imagine, coalesce, disorient and manifest other collective tables into being.

This framework held in parallel with the [02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes](../../02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes/02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes.md) chapter, forms an orientation for this research that proposes crip manifestings, manifestos, protocols and infrastructures as a way to re-orient the norms of computational practices through a cripping disorientation. This disorientation asking us to refuse the pull, the heckles and obligations of tech practices and to listen to our own crip and queer axes, ones of life affirmation and radical relational politics, to form our own deviating lines that fit our collective and community bodily horizons instead of cutting away at them. This thesis draws other lines of survival, of necessity and of crip movement making, where we refuse orientations of tables and relations that aim to break bodies before they begin. Instead, it seeks to form practices to manifest together orientations and movements that can turn these tables towards stories of collective liberation and care.

[^x1]: As some disabilities are invalidated, or indeterminate within medicine, often leading to some of the most exhausting and painful experiences, that are still somehow invalidated.
[^x2]: No matter who I am.
