## Action research

This section brings into focus why this research has oriented towards action research as a methodology. Following on from the [01_Disability justice and life affirmation flipping the table](../../01_Disability%20justice%20and%20life%20affirmation%20flipping%20the%20table/01_Disability%20justice%20and%20life%20affirmation%20flipping%20the%20table.md) chapter and its framing of embodied and relational politics I have found that action research aligns and intersects at a number of places that are key. To trace these crossing lines I am working with Judi Marshall's notion of Living Life as Inquiry (LLI) (Gearty and Marshall 2021; Marshall 1999) and Living Systemic Thinking (Marshall 2004) that make room for me to not only take on the calls for action I have made in the previous chapter but also to bring into those actions the necessary reflection that quality inquiry and research entails[^q1].

Marshall's LLI (1999; 2004; Gearty and Marshall 2021) work is a specific type of action research named first person action research, which is where the first intersection crosses paths with my proposed framework. In first person action research Marshall is in many ways practicing a methodology that makes room for the background of the practitioner to settle in, like Ahmed (2006), and brings in the context, relations and feelings of the person making the research. In her essay *Living Life as Inquiry -- a Systemic Practice for Change Agents (2021)* with Margaret Rose Gearty, which acts as a 20 year celebration and retrospective since the paper and method was first published and to examine how LLI has been taken up in many orientations. There are a number of focuses in this essay on how *Living Life as Inquiry* can be practised but there is a key focus on how it makes room for an embodiment of research. Marshall phrases it as "Inquiry has woven itself into my life" (2021, 454). This embodiment and weaving of research into life is key for my practice as it makes room for me to wiggle into this research, my experiences of being crip and queer within and around institutional limits and their relations. It let's me situate this research to my context, to think through what it means for me as a middle class 'white', crip and queer researcher, with chronic illness, pain and fatigue to be approaching deeply neo-liberal and efficiency driven institutions in the UK. This embodiment of research also enables me to think about how these positions of practice and of making embodied actions is itself a space of knowledge generation, and one that finds the capture or determination of these knowledges impossible in many ways. In Living Systemic Thinking (2004) Marshall gives the example of her colleagues and her reflecting on a review process of a student, to a fine grain of reflection, and shows how each person interprets these relations differently. She approaches this not to de-validate the difference and nuance but to work with these varied perspectives as other orientations of an issue, that form their own understandings of these actions and their relations to them (ibid, 15). Marshall's position on the embodiment of research also offers me to bring feelings and affect into practice, intersecting with a crip focus on affectivity. This navigation of embodiment informs my orientation of actions and their deliberation to not be led by but to account for how it has felt within the relations, how what is expected causes friction or how what I desire to undertake brings joy.

With this engagement of self, of bringing feelings into action, and those actions into inquiry and knowing they pose another way of orienting myself. Marshall and Gearty through their approach to LLI also ask of me to think about how I direct or orient myself, much like I discussed in the [01.01.00_Orienting_the_table](../../01_Disability%20justice%20and%20life%20affirmation%20flipping%20the%20table/sections/01.01.00_Orienting_the_table.md) section through the work of Ahmed. With LLI they think through how these practitioner and actioned knowledges that I practice, can in themselves form alternative orientations to those of hegemony and institutions. In an essay called *Living Systemic Thinking* (ibid) Marshall terms it as "sense making", and later on her and Gearty ask us to work with this sensing think through "when to persist or desist" (2021, 457) in direction. With this they present Living Life as Inquiry as a method to process what to inquire into and how to orient relational actions towards that outcome. To do this in this embodied context they work with a few notions to consider how to feel out what is appropriate to be done in that context. They talk about "staying fresh and open" (ibid, 455), where by taking life into inquiry, we question our habits, our sedimented patterns and norms to think through and feel out other approaches and paths to the outcome. To do this they propose "checking for signs of vitality" (ibid, 455) as a way to do pulse-checks, to ask "How am I, here and now?", and to balance between inquiring mindlessly forward and being stuck within the fine grain and frozen. They also pose these pulse-checks to be embodied and not always consciously reasoned to aim to unravel the notion of "pursuit" within research. This is where I can move away from a determined end goal or sedimented straight path and tending towards feeling out dynamic and emerging research to decide the next actions to make. They also bring up the notion of "working with emotions"( ibid, 456) as a way to inquire into "what is really important", of connecting to the issue on an embodied level and letting these feelings not determine but be engaged in what I feel I need to tend to.

This leads onto their proposition of "practices of discernment" (ibid, 457), which interestingly isn't about where to act but more about when. As they note it can be about discerning when to be "waiting things out" and when to be working out "what is what" before deciding how to act, positioning Marshall's notion on "when to persist or desist" within time. Practising this within Ahmed's framing of inherited and sedimented relations makes room for me to think, where am I now, and what can I change within my reach. In a textural response to this notion Marshall and Gearty give the image of the Heron/yoga pose, of one leg in the water, of feeling the ripples and many forms of data lap against your body and to patiently discern what they mean and what/when to action. They follow this texture with their notion of "the timely move to action" (ibid, 458), which continues to ask how and when to take actions of inquiry but also where. In this embodied methodology they prompt us to think through where this can be in the relations we are entangled into, which can be an internal action on the self, or an "inward action" as they term it. In doing this though they don't divide between what they call the inward and outward arcs of action, but instead see them as performances of an entangled process. This prompts this research to re-scope where the actions of action research can be taken when embodied in research, and has pushed me as a practitioner to inquire into how I am internally orienting practices and how this is affected by and affecting outward actions.

Following on from (but also maybe before/during) is their conception of reflection of action. Why I say maybe before/during is due to the troubling of the separation of action and reflection that LLI encourages. Instead with LLI Marshall and Gearty ask me to be open to the complex ways that these movements of action and reflection are entwined and interdependent, with reflection being in many ways an action in itself. Within this dialogue of reflection in mind they form another few notions to think with and help reflect on what matters within and around our actions. They ask us to revisit the "inner and outer arcs of attention" (ibid, 458), and that by taking time with both the internal embodied and external actions each will inform and develop the understanding of one another. Somewhat intersecting with crip theory they compare the entanglement of these arcs to that of the bodymind, and its move to dissolve the boundary between the two, where action and reflection move as one muscle. This is also closely read into in *Living Systemic Thinking (2004)* where Marshall takes up a close reading and reflection of their approach at each stage in line with feedback from colleagues to deliver a quality emerging inquiry into institutional processes through her enactment and relation to them.

Returning to LLI they also work with the notion of "the processual nature of inquiry" (ibid, 459) that prompts us to approach these cycles of sense-making as ways to move beyond the determined and inherited generalised models of research and instead situate these orientating processes within the embodied practices of the researcher. In these modes of orienting they pose knowledge as ephemeral and fleeting as it sits within the relation of action and practice. They open to reflection that does not model, generalise and predetermine moments but evoke practice that makes room for me to visit the relations I engage in afresh to rethink the sedimented paths we take towards them. In this move and throughout the paper they also open up to what they call *textures*, such as the Heron description above, which takes the form of images, figures and reflections that act as experiments of how to express these feelings, practices and enquires where words may fail us. This orientation of modes of reflection within Action Research intersects well with a crip position, and one which I relate to a lot, where words can escape me. Here they make room for these discursive knowledges through embodied technical and social practices to be validated as generative ways of getting to know the relational "problems" at hand through other revealing practices. How drawing, metaphoring and coding can be ways to reflect and key modes of action, inquiry and sense-making. The last notion they leave us with is that of "reviewing generative/degenerative aspects of inquiry" (2021, 459), and is a very kind one that in many ways echo's that of pulse-checking. With this notion they discuss the balance you have to take in first-person inquiry to not get caught in self-critical cycles, which can stop actions from taking place and trap researchers inward. To manage this line they say to monitor what is being looked at, with degenerative inquiry being characterised by "over-rumination or joylessness". Here again aligning with a crip move to imagine disalignment as a generative site, and one where there is always a possibility of joy and pleasure. This is again where in places within myself and in relation to others, we can inquire into how these sites of friction as not invalidated and determined actions of humiliation, pain and duress, but how they make room for the possibility to be joyous and pleasurable places of inquiry.

Bringing LLI into action in this research has empowered me undertaking it in a number of ways. It has made room for me to unfold and situate the research within my manys contexts and practices as a crip and queer researcher throughout the PhD. It has also prompted me to engage my feelings, bodily relations and emotions into an embodied research practice. It has given space to the technical and social practices I undertake, of thinking through code, finding frictions in coalition and of trying to survive within and around these institutions, as generative and informative textures of this research. It has also buffered these crip and queer notions of finding our own paths together, and that those are ones we desire, find vital and map to our bodies. In retrospect first person inquiry has given my research practice the capacity to change paths. For example a key turning point in this research is that through quality inquiry I decided to desist working with and for certain logics of automation and organisation that invoke and determine dominative centralised control and come from violent ableist and eugenics histories. Instead to step back, reorient and persist at the practice of social infrastructure that inform how to decentralise and disorient their technical counterpart through community interdependence and critical access.

In this move to desist to then persist I found though that there were some crip frictions I have with this framing of LLI and Action Research here. Even though they counter narratives of pursuit and make rooms for finding my own way through embodied practices, their focus can be somewhat be Cripped more in relation to instituional processes. When Marshall references Meyerson and Scully's concept of "tempered radicals" (1999, 3) it is hard to imagine crip theory so normalised, subdued and conformed. Of course we get "heated up and cooled down" when "being simultaneously outsider and insider" of institutions, but it is not about getting "tougher". I know that in my inquiry I have moved, sometimes without reason from being tempered, to flexible, to brittle, to wet, to rusted, to loose and to tempered again. This isn't to say this divergence isn't possible within First Person AR, but the Crip orientation I desire aims to move beyond the need to be tempered towards institutional norms and our manifestings, as being tempered may make unlivable the many approaches to a crip notion of justice and radical access before they even begin. This is not to say being tempered and playing the valid role of "user" or "expert" to subvert or hack, or to reflect on the ways we emerge in relation to institutions are not valid in this critique. It is instead to disorient this table of action and to make known-able through critical access, the labours and their knowledges that these institutions invalidate. In relation to my experiences from and orientation to institutions and their imaginary possibility for these radical politics and social relations we call for is that they are limited through very restrictive terms that collectively in my collaborations, we can only form small amounts of wiggle room within and around. To find the space and relations that I desire and that can start to make room for these sorts of imaginary practices I turned disobediently from methods where I have to be tempered, and I have disoriented this through crip theory, interdependence and of movement making. This isn't to neglect the change I can and have made in the institution, but it is to pivot from crip futures they cannot hold. It is to make time and room to feel out my orientation towards these more restrictive and sedimented organisational practices of institutions, and figure out how to counter them. 


[^q1]: "quality (a term I prefer to 'validity')" - marshal living systemic
