## Inquiring into Critical access

In this next section I bring this genealogy of configuration out of line and queer it with this research’s cripping axis of inquiry. To do this I aim to translate the inflection of access-able to to that of configure-able through a tracing of access-knowledge and critical access. With this disorientating inflection I aim to inform the STS methods of configuration through those of Aimi Hamraie's tracing of flexible users (2017) and their understanding of access-knowledge. To do this I take into focus my own experiences of organising access for others as well as requesting access myself as inquiries into configuring practices informed through access-knowledge.

To start this inquiry into critical access it is interesting to first turn to -able as a suffix or as what I am calling here an inflection. -able or -ible’s etymology is traced from middle English, that comes from a French incursion of “-able”, and an empirical root in Latin with “-abilis”. This suffix’s etymology inflects  “-able” to orient towards that of being able to do something, to enter, to be free from constraint or even gifted, but more specifically worthy of doing that thing or of being free. This sedimented line of “-able” being about worth is one that we still feel to this date, where questions of disabled people being worthy of access to basic care and a standard quality of life is still seemingly an open debate in the uk [^41]. Instead here, I orient to take a step back and disobediently retreat from these normative terms of -able and think through how critical access and crip studies might disorient it otherwise. Interestingly on the retreat we may pass the Old English suffix of “-endlic” that “-able” straightened out and overruled. “-endlic” instead of focusing on the value or worthiness of the subject, focuses on the material capacity. Inflecting a word with it means it is capable to, or able to do something. Why I stop here to catch a breath on the retreat is because it denotes a key aspect of critical access that I want to highlight. It is not about a person being worthy of access, but it is to orient access as a collective flexibility to do what we can materially, and to be honest and open about those flex-abilities, capacities and contours. 

Kafer poses an understanding of flexibility as "not just extra time" (2013, p.27) for disabled people, where "rather than bend disabled bodies and minds to meet the clock, crip time bends the clock to meet disabled bodies and mind"(ibid, p.27). This is similarly reflected on by Aimi Hamraie's tracing of the _flexible user_ and the _human factor_ (2017) within eugenics, industrial engineering and ergonomics beginning in the nineteenth century. The flexible "user" traced by Hamraie emerges from mass prosthetic manufacture after the world wars and poses soft human bodies, and the emergent human factor they make up within systems design, to be malleable problems to be cured by being shape by and for hard normalising systems and their processes. This in contemporary critiques is highlighted in the work of Renyi Hong's "plasticity" (2024), but especially in his critique of curative platforms (2024). This is where big tech platforms, like "Grab, a leading superapp platform in Southeast Asia",  form narratives of disabled bodies as empowered by flexible work within a system and making room for them to choose when to work. In action thought this resulted pushing people with disabilities into precarious work and unsafe working environments, which never resulted in them having stability, agency or being empowered. It forced them to be flexible to the clock and processes of the app, and did not make room for or imagine their indeterminate bodies or their wider relational frictions.

In response to these design politics Hamraie offers up the history of access-knowledge and of disabled people as knowers and makers to disorient hard machines to be flexible to softer bodies and build up the capacities within them for indeterminate crip bodies and their situated horizons. When we orient to how crip studies is practised around access in academia (Abrams, Floyd, and Abes 2024; Evans et al. 2024), and also from my own experiences of providing it, it is this place where we question the flexibility of the sedimented hard relations and politics of institutions, from the ways they conform disabled bodies within times, categories and metric figures, to how these invalidating practices validate and bring peoples needs into dialogue.

> “The disability to come . . . will and should always belong to the time of the promise. . . . it’s a crip promise that we will always comprehend disability otherwise and that we will, collectively, somehow access other worlds and futures.”  
> —Robert McRuer, Crip Theor (McRuer and Bérubé 2006)

In the appendices of Feminist queer and crip Kafer (2013, 171–78) quotes McRuer above, before sharing her own materials from her practises of access. In this quote and in Kafer’s placement of it I interpret this “crip promise” that opens up crip futures as a promise of access that we make to ourselves and others around us. This promise of access for me is a call for life affirmation. It is a disorienting and inflecting action that moves towards affirming lives through emergent daily practices of access. By orienting life-affirmation on indeterminate access I don’t aim to determine what it is or can be, but aim to configure out the practices that can make room for life affirmation to be know-able through access in action. 

Stating access as a promise orients not as a static set of “universal” solutions or cures, such as the historic "one best way" (2017, p. 61) that Hamraie critiques. In this practise I know this is not something I can master or cure and there will never be a determinate "one bast way" or a solution to access. As Hamraie's forms it access-knowledge is produced through "Flexible knowing (knowledge of a range of embodiments) and flexible design (designing for those embodiments)", that form needs and access outcomes from situated bodies and not generalised or prescribed normid bodies. Hamraie shares the histories of access knowledge through the reverberation of section 504, and where barrier free access started to come into equality laws. In this recollection they share the many misfitting, iterations and localisations of these laws, as disable activists tried to make room in the generalised state and international level access laws for the situated diverse needs of the people with disability within America. These range form the ways mandatory policies were made advisories when taken to other states (turned into extra time), how barrier free access was scoped towards more traditionally socially visible disabilities, and how institutionalised barrier free access also pushed for circulation and visibility of disabled people, instead of giving them agency over their lives.

This troubling and reverberating of the rulers line through access-knowledge itself comes to a position of validating the collective labours, the possibility of institutional flexibility and the situated knowledges that it takes to be in a place or relation together. Bringing this back to Kafer, she demonstrates her access-knowledge through practise of making scent free spaces, and where the expanded relational understanding of access it undertakes is explicit. This is where all participant must be intimate with this room, considerate about what they clean themselves with and how they can stay chemical free until they reach this room. With Johanna Hedva’s _Sick Woman Theory_ (2016) they also think through the ways access-knowledge troubles the normative roles of activism, and asks how can their be more room for expressions from those who cannot always be there in person due to illness, capacities or other life commitments. Hedva here transforms the understanding of what it is we can offer when we show up for justice. Another recollection of the many contexts of access-knowledge in action is Ren Britton's _On Rehearsing Access_ (Britton, 2024) where access riders and their request are taken up as hacking tools to make room and flexibility in communities and institutions so disabled people can thrive within them. These patterns and practices of access knowledge differ greatly from a model of centralised control seen not only in the medical model, but also politics of neo-liberal austerity and their efficiency policies and imaginaries of sociopolitical infrastructures. In Suchman’s examples as I go on to share in [04.02.02_Cripping Configuration](04.02.02_Cripping%20Configuration.md), some of my own in [02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes](../../02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes/02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes.md), as well as Ahmed and Kafer’s work that i discuss in [01_Disability_justice_and_life_affirmation_flipping_the_table](../../01_Disability_justice_and_life_affirmation_flipping_the_table/01_Disability_justice_and_life_affirmation_flipping_the_table.md), we have offered up how the pivotal action in centralised control is a holding of a determined line in place through invalidating penal logics, which almost always negate and silence the material relations, sense making and feedback of bodies. 

Understanding access knowledge as a promise of flexibility instead of a checklist (Kafer 2017), approaches it as an ongoing process of situated negotiation and a radical space of flexing lines and wiggling room for crip folks to participate how they feel able and desire to. This indeterminate promise and practice of access knowledge in action can seem overwhelming in the way that it is non-prescriptive, in need of deep intimacy and care as well as often admitting to not really have the capacity to meet the full needs of people. Saying this though I have been finding comfort in returning to this -endlic inflection of -ability, turning it from worth and towards capacity. Access in these terms takes so many paths converging and diverging between communities and institutions at each situated and messy locality, lines being drawn and woven together to configure a holey tapestry. The spaces missed and gaps out of reach of our communities thread giving form and horizon to this body, forming contours around what access is and can be. Here I am inquiring into how I approach my capacities when configuring access through a critical flexibility that aims to go between these divergent points, become intimate with the lines that divides the expertise within my communities and orient to practices of going into the unknown together. 


[^41]: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/live/cj937xylzyet


