## What was Actioned?

When it comes to summing up the actions taken for this project they are fairly entangled by the ways I have been taking many internal and external arcs of research through a number of contexts. I have though found it helpful to map these arcs into three movements, which are themselves covered by each of the following three chapters. These stages overlap and have greatly informed one another, as well as many happenings that do not quite fit into this thesis, but I found this approach helpful to orient these movements more accessibly. An initial sense-making stage of inquiry into [04_Configure-Able Methods](../../04_Configure-able_Methods/04_Configure-Able%20Methods.md) aims to figure out configuration methods by rubbing up against them and finding frictions with them from my crip axis. Through this I offer up the disobedient configure-able methods that emerges localised improvised collective configurations as affirming infrastructural and institutional re-configuring and hacking practices. I then move to practise these methods with what is in reach, and orienting towards collaborating with In-grid to figure out [05_In-Configure-Ability](../../05_In-Configure-Ability/05_In-Configure-Ability.md) as a place to collective orient our sociotechnical systems through critical access. This made room for us to try to distribute our capacity to manage and know these relations and in that movement also distribute the power and expertise in our relations. I also orient to try and put more disabled futures in reach by manifesting [06.00_Intro](../../06_A_Cozier_Configure-Ability/06_entries/06.00_Intro.md), where I emerge a crip network infrastructure and collaboration that aims to crip and disorient these sociotechnical infrastructures through bringing with us crip politics of affirmation, care, access and the indeterminate embodied knowing and expertise of disabled bodies.

Even though these are presented as distinct sections I want to encourage an understanding of how these movements have come into being together with the figure below. These overlapping and overflowing movements to me represent a disorienting from the prescribed and determined norms, and a orienting to crip politics, experience, need and desire.

