
### Bringing Disobedience Into Action

When it comes to bringing these disobedient methods into my Action Research, I am informed by TITiPI's questioning of the roles and relations we play when debugging systems. In this thinking about the scales, relations and capacities we need to make room for the communities, technologies and change we desire right now. This disobedience intersecting with the crip cyborg (Kafer 2013), and the health rebel (Kafer 2017), engaging with and stepping out of line from the violent norms of computational systems and institutional logics. In doing this I am also turning to see how these practices of forming counter narratives, figures and manifestings of sociotechnical fables can be brought into action in the making of collective infrastructures. Asking how can my collaborators and I imagine other ways of relating with these technologies in retreat from their violent origins and contemporary uses and towards manifesting our own imaginaries and politics around them.

With a queer disobedience I also take actions through transdisciplinary approaches which echo Ahmed's wiggle room (2014) loosening of determined roles to performances. In this wiggling making room with this disobedience for the roles and discipline within research, forming queer lines between them. Here I aim to perform these disciplines with respect and to high quality but along my own lines that subvert the ones they were  prescribed to as isolated institutional discipline.

Disobedience has also been taken along inward arcs of action and into my internal enquiry and practice. I do this to think through how I can orient my inquiry by being in touch with the relations I am entangled in as a crip and queer researcher. This has taken the work mentioned in the [00.01.00_Background](../../00_Introduction/00_entries/00.01.00_Background.md) of the introduction to this research, being individually focused and technologically centred practice, to now being disorient by collective bodies and practices that orients the social of infrastructure, with the assistance of technical. Taking up disobedient action research made room for me to desist from engaging in what felt like assimilation practices of computing, to then move to persist with other ways of imagining crip capacities for care, coalition and interdependence.

Throughout the research there is a returning to a disobedient motion. This can be read in the [02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes](../../02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes/02_Crip-Tic_of_Vignettes.md) with experiences of surviving institutions through refusal. There is also disobedience in my work of [04_Configure-Able Methods](../../04_Configure-able_Methods/04_Configure-Able%20Methods.md) and the forming of a critical access informed approach to the configuration organisations and infrastructure. These disobedient crip methods centres points of impact and frictions to figure out localised interdependent ways towards collective infrastructural relations. These disobedient methods are also taken into the two later inquiries of [05_In-Configure-Ability](../../05_In-Configure-Ability/05_In-Configure-Ability.md) and [06.00_Intro](../../06_A_Cozier_Configure-Ability/06_entries/06.00_Intro.md), where I explore them in action with different collaborators. This disobedience is also overflowing from this research in the ways the [08_Conclusion](../../08_Conclusion/08_Conclusion.md) covers, of how these methods are already unfolding into future projects and infrastructures made with and for communities through disobedient intersectional queer feminist and crip practices of manifesting action now.

