## Background

The background of the cozy-cloud is composed between a few places. In the Crip-Tic of vignettes that parallels the literature review earlier in this thesis, and where I situate this research within my experience there are three points I will touch on again briefly. In *The Research Table* (chap) crip-tic I share the Cozy-Cloud's initiation during the residency at the XDFI, and the wider background of research that normalises the fetishization of disabled bodies whilst also infantilising and invalidating them. In another tic there is also the The computing table that demonstrates the way the norms of institutionalised computational practices often invalidate or disappear crip lives and critical dialogues of access from their tables. In the final tic I turn to the The crip table, where I came into contact with radical spaces run by M.E.L.T. and HJL[^a1] which made room for crip politics, critical access and disability. There is also of course the work in the prior chapter on Configure-able methods, where I collaborated with others to critique configuring methods through critical access. All of these points provide an orientation of retreat from institutionalised practices that extract from and invalidate crip lives before they begin how? Note , and to instead orient towards embodied interdependent crip abundance and life affirmation.

Moving in this orientation there are also more granular and nuanced points that informed me to do this. When working in many of the collaborations mentioned in the above sections, but also in my other work being a researcher and developer, I found an absence of crip and disabled politics, practices and dialogue. In some research and work contexts this sort of work was if anything closed down when I tried to share or action it. This is very much expected unfortunately, and in many ways in the prior chapters work and through intersectional first person action research where I have trouble these silencing norms. When reflecting on these experiences, I found that I had a deep desire to begin to orient exactly from what was missing in these backgrounds, that of life affirmation and radical crip politics. Of course there are many existing radical disabled networks online, from Alice Wong's *Disability Visibility Project* to those that Sins Invalid's Making Connections and Crip Bits (Kafai, 2021, p. 121-123), Kevin Gotkin + friends *Remote Access Party*[^a2] as well as HJL's breathing circles that are held online and in person. These spaces are just a few more well known names of many that are actioning representation not only for disability to be visible, but more importantly for disabled community to connect, share experiences and form dialogues together around their matters. These though seemed to feel out of reach for specifically this type of infrastructural practice for a few reasons. One being that most of these spaces are not specifically oriented towards cripping technology, and in many ways to keep their online spaces accessible to their communities, they had to work with big tech platforms such Facebook, Zoom and Google. Much like I talk of in the Configure-able methodschapter, this is due to most FLOSS not having accessible functionality prioritised, but also technological configure-ability is figured as something only a small section of people or users within the public can really come into contact with. Things have drastically escalated in recent years around the disabling roles that big tech play within society though, from the ways state institutions are wholesale outsourcing their infrastructures and organizational capacities to these private companies that then hold them out of reach of them (Gürses et al. 2022), to the ways that simultaneously at the same time these companies are being declared by the UN as being complicit within genocide for using the same organizational digital infrastructures (Albanese 2025). For me this is a point where I desired to make room for this contact to happen, and actioned the Cozy-Cloud as a place to reorient crip community towards the promise of a crip cloud and one where we could be experts of our own network and community infrastructures. This crip desire both stemming from that of Ahmed's queer desire that makes room for us between determined roles, figures, and relations, but also that of a radical crip desire that overflows from indeterminate and infinite bodily horizons which disorient normative notions of prescriptive direction.

When I started to inquire into disabled coding community spaces I found none really within my reach, which is maybe a sign of my research ability and shyness, but also maybe of how few there are. The only thing I found was one disabled coder asking on a stackoverflow, if there was a space to share disabled coding experiences, as they tried to survive hiding their disability from their employer[^a3]. This as well as my own realization that I also knew very few other disabled coders, prompted me to think about how to try to make room for us to gather, practice and collate crip network infrastructures. To do this I wanted to make room to build up a community and move towards that which was not yet in reach. I knew of other disabled people working together but none in reach of me, and so through this wriggling of room I started to reorient this still emerging table of the Cozy-Cloud towards collaboration, interdependence, refusal, life affirmation and crip politics.

[^a1]: Healing Justice London
[^a2]: https://www.criticaldesignlab.com/project/remote-access-party
[^a3]: https://dev.to/ehelaya/coders-with-disability-3jkh
