# A Cozier Configure-Ability

This chapter reflects on my inquiry into the coalescing of the cozy-cloud as a crip and disability justice centred server. This Inquiry moves on from the embedded intersectional infrastructuring with In-grid which is covered in the last chapter, to instead orient these digital network infrastructures to be directly in touch with radical crip imaginaries, embodied knowledges, disorienting expertise and indeterminate practices. In the last chapter I shared my collaborative practices of making room within, around and beyond systemic inflexibilities with In-grid in-flex-able collective practices. In this chapter here, I reflect on the work of the Cozy-Cloud through two creative outcomes. These take up this reseaches framing and act as different manifestations of crip politic that I practised and embedded within network infrastructures through an interdependent troubling of frictious relations as they make impact. In doing this I aim to share how crip infrastructuring came into being and how these inquiries and their actions made room for my collaborators and I to imagine, figure out and be in touch with a cripped bodily horizons of network infrastructures.

With these crip network manifestings in focus, I reflect on it in 4 parts, again bringing a background for this chapter and its figures to emerge from. I then focus in on my [06.02_Manifesting_intentions](../../../../Thesis%20📖%20Backup/chapters/06_A%20Cozier%20Configure-Ability/06.02_Manifesting_intentions.md) for this crip server, reflecting on how I made space within alt texts, sticker packs, cozy pillows and the website to hold these non-linear imaginaries which oriented towards life affirming network infrastructures. I follow this by reflecting on the [06.03.00_En-crip-ing_cozy_time](06.03.00_En-crip-ing_cozy_time.md), which was a collaboration between Mariana Marongoni and I on the Cozy-Cloud. With the server we manifested chronic cron jobs to poetically crip the servers computational clock and make room for a plurality of times. I finish this chapter by orienting to the future, of desires for crip more crazed infrastructural manifesting and to still yet trouble the ways I have started to foster and wiggle towards this collaboration within and around the limits of the Cozy-Cloud.

