### En-crip-ing kinship

An essential part of the emergence of this crip infrastructure and also something we felt was important to share in the presentation of the work was the collaborative relation and interdependence it took to manifest this cripping of the server's clock. Behind the code, and "between the \<li\>nes we see crips making space"(Simms & Marangoni, 2025), where in the html of the crip time poem, and for people to see we added comments of our messages of crip care, time making and wigglings of rooms, that where an essential practice for this crip infrastructure to come into being. These messages mainly focused on us reorienting plans to be flexible to our capacities, of letting each other know what is too much and how we can re-approach our practise together so it is maintainable. It also shows the hope, joy and pleasure of caring for these limits and our configure-able methods that disorient us towards situating within our divergent and unpredictable needs.

This part of the work's output seems quite small to focus on but its impact on the cozy-cloud is much bigger. Shayda Kafai in Crip kinship reflects on these sorts of collective labours with Sins Invalid and brings focus to Kim TallBear's "Good relation"[^612]. Good relation here means making room for the diverse intimacies and needs a community might have as well as building up these capacities. It is also similar to what Mia Mingus calls access intimacy(2017), but both, as well as our actions here bring into focus the time, intimacy and care work it takes for disabled, neurodiverse and chronically ill people to be in coalition and taking actions towards their life affirming infrastructures together. It also makes me reflect on Kafer quoting Bernice Johnson Reagon[^613], and thinking through how much extra work, labour, care, energy and emotion that it takes to be in coalition, no matter "Good relation" with others. This brings a focus to the amount of time I took to slow down, question and query the ways I am in relation and care with and for others, both on the Cozy-Cloud and withing wider collaborations. Here though with Marianna we wiggled room into the HTML computing tables through our comments and made accessible the ways that this care work and coalition made this infrastructure possible, bringing to the table that which is often kept from view.

[^612]: "Informed by the knowledge of asexual polyamorists in her community Kim shares that intimacy can be"being in good relation... intimacy is conversation... is sharing resources, is talking to one another, listening to one another, reassuring one another. Sex can be one among many ways of relating.\" When I envision what crip kinship can look like and what spaces it can create, I think about Kim's definitions of intimacy and how we, in our crip kinship systems, can be in good relation with one another. Good relation is asking what someone's access needs are, what someone's s pronouns are. Good relation is pod mapping, spoon check-ins, and care work. Good relation is understanding the collective access that is needed for all of us to thrive.\" (Kafai, 2021, p. 120)
[^613]: "I feel as if i'm gonna keel over any minute and die. That is often what it feels like if you're really doing coalition work. most of the time you feel threatened to the core and if you don't, you're not really doing no coalescing." (Kafer, 2013, p. 152)
