### En-Crip-ing \<Head/Body\>

Here we found ourselves a little conflicted within the work as we wanted to keep people in contact with the terminal, server and infrastructure, but also recognised this as a barrier to accessibility. Here when caring for this site of friction we deciding to reorient it from being in a terminal to being a html page that could be accessed online. In this move we did retreat from the terminal a bit, but also in doing so put it in contact with more accessible network practices and made visible the back end of this works exchange. Here instead of en-crip-ing a simple text file we moved directly to en-cip-ing a HTML file served up on the Cozy-Cloud. This move crips the animated relations of normative HTML, which is in high level languages like CSS and JS, and rdisorients, edits and crips this page through a the Cozy-Clouds chronic Crip time. In this motion crossing scales of infrastructures and making visible the computational labour and matters that are often hidden from view.

As the en-crip-ing scrip we had written, and many chronic illnesses, are both very indiscriminate this also made space to refract these cripping actions of infrastructures elsewhere. In particular, much of the formatting of HTML is hidden, but this chronic job would did not have the capacity to care, and so en-cripped the \<head\>, the \<body\> and everything else in the file. Instead of trying to "fix" this, our crip expertise found this happy accident reflected much of the bodymind critiques of crip studies. Here when configuring it out we felt how this same dialogue can be taken to infrastructure, and here surfacing the relation to what is served, and how it is served up.

Mariana with her (almost) infinite knowledge of feminist net art practices also brought into focus the "early net-art and cyberfeminist works that reflected upon the structure of HTML as executable anthropomorphic metaphors, such as Mariela Yeregui's «Epithelia» and Talan Memmott's «Lexia to Perplexia.»"(Simms & Marangoni, 2025). With these references showing how these two legacies, politics and practices of crip theory and net art have already overlapped, and how people have disoriented and made room for these infrastructures to be configure-able in relation to their situated embodied experiences and expertise.

