### en-crip-ing time

This work started out with us talking playfully about encrypting and cripping being similar, both in sounds of the words, but also more importantly within the way it can represent the intimacy needed to access people's knowledges of how disability is relationaly in practice. With this we were thinking with Mia Mingus' (Mingus, 2017) access intimacy as a way to orient how these relations need time and room to be understood and known in, they cannot just be un-encrypted by anyone just like that. With this in focus Mariana came out with the first draft of a bash script that could represent this relation algorithmically, by going through a text doc holding a poem of crip times we wrote and encrypting it line by line as a preformative en-crip-ing of the poem. This was a great start to begin to represent crip-time through a computational relation. With this initial move we turned to another play on the technical language of computer systems to reconfigured the cron job, a way of calling routine maintenance bash scripts on unix systems, as a chronic jobs, an indeterminate intimate practice of maintenance and care. Through this intervention we questioned the materiality of these norms of standardised unix time and started to imagine in two places how we could en-crip them. On approach was of how we can hack the existing standardised and pre-figured clock to wiggle room for a crip computational infrastructures now! The other approach questioning of the limits of this computational clock, thinking through what it can imagine and makes time for, but also how this infinite imaginary has limits, and ones we can imagine crip futures beyond.

For this first move of en-crip-ing the Unix clock here and now, we hacked these chronic cron jobs to be very disobedient and do things which they were never imagined to do by their norms. Cron jobs are "always deterministically on time and up to date"(Simms & Marangoni, 2025 ) but we hacked their code to make room for them to be "somehow both late, early and on time"(ibid.). We did this through the code quoted from our essay below, and with this we worked with computational poetics to form wiggle room in the variability of what these functions do and what they are able to represent and configure out. With this we brought some crip expertise to these systems and actioned some wiggle room within their norms and from our point of contact with the. This was done for us question what these network infrastructures be imagined through, and have capacity for when we care for their limits and constraints.

> \"So, when our chronic job declares

    * * * * * sleep $[RANDOM\%69]m ; /home/cozy/chronic/job.sh

> it's saying:
>
> \* = All the time and indefinite\
> sleep = Rest as a valid (in)activity\
> RANDOM = Indeterminacy\
> 69 = Interdependence, desire and pleasure\
> /home/cozy/chronic/job.sh = Chronic care\" (Simms & Marangoni, 2025)

Through en-coding an indefinite indeterminate intimate and restful hack of a chronic cron job to the computational clock of the Cozy-Cloud we poetically cripped the chrononormative[^r10] relations of its standardised time forming wiggle room within the here and now. This crip infrastructuring being the first on the Cozy-Cloud server, and in many ways crips the background for what we wish to enable here.

This cripping of computational intimacies is also shown through the "cozy/chronic/job.sh" script which is a modified version of the original bash script Mariana proposed. It still went through the poem of crip times, en-crip-ing and de-crip-ing it line by line, but to chronic this job we made it indeterminate, indefinite and non-linear. To do this we programmed it to chose a random line to en-crip or de-crip, indeterminate, which made room for it to go on forever, indefinite, and making a relationship where you have to come back repeatedly with care to get to know it , intimate. Here orienting this poem of crip times to be en-cripped to only be known through relational practices of crip time and care.

Towards the end of the essay we also use this space to reflect on the second cripping of the unix clock, and caring for its limits and beyond, as it nears to its determined bit limit and end of unix time in 2036. With this we made wiggle room to imagine a pluriverse[^r11] of crip computational clock that can practice networks that de-centre and relinquish control of "what should happen on time"(Kafer 2013). With this imaginary we welcomed a future abundant with the indefinite and indeterminate times we need to wiggle within these network infrastructures norms towards their criped futures.

[^r10]: "these temporal and structural norms I have called chrononormativity: causality, sequence, forward-moving agency, and so on" (Freeman 2010)
[^r11]: "Arturo Escobar's Pluriversal Politics (2020) engages with the «politics of the possible,» exploring how dominant worldviews limit the imagination of radically different futures that would truly bring forth an epistemic transformation. His work does not inscribe specifics as his arguments are in the realm of the unknown, the not yet reached." (Simms & Marangoni, 2025)
