### (Con)figuring out Intentions

To produce the intentions for this platform I decided to form a set of accessible stickers and Alt text pairs, that could be shared online, as physical and mobile messaging stickers. The decision for choosing this format was for a few reasons. The first because stickers in messaging apps such as signal are a place that have emerged some amazing community driven sticker packs for different activist practices. This includes some like *Nematodes and Counter Clouds*[^r4], *Energy Give Away*[^r5] and *In The Ruins of Big Tech*[^r6], which have used this medium to bring these dialogues and relations into our everyday messaging and have been manifested collectively by TITiPI, Varia, Lauren Berlant, Alexis Pauline Gumbs, Ren Britton, Other Weapons, Underground division, Batool Desouky and the list goes on. When we send and share these stickers we in many ways also send their background and intentions with them, and in these situated transformations they form other modes of dialogue around community, friendship and action together.

The second reason that I took this up is also because I an access friction within this messaging stickers and a need to try to add Alt texts to this medium. Alt texts are an accessibility practice where we write texts to accompany images so that those who are not able to view them due to visual impairment or other reasons can also be involved in the dialogue that those images make room for. Through a core crip interpretation of access practices being art forms and creative practices of joy and pleasure, not the tiresome mandate necessities rhetoric would incite, I decided to research how this was already being done within Alt texts. In my research I found Alt texts taken up in by the disabled community as creative practices with alt text as poetry[^r7] by Bojana Coklyat and Finnegan Shannon sharing with us how these forms of access can be beautiful and emotive practices that in themselves make room for a diverse, creative and nuanced dialogues that take the image further than the capacities of its visual repressentation. From a more critical computing approach and with the *A platform report* of Hamaca's platform by TITiPI (Snelting et al., 2024), it also points out that within network practices alt texts also make room for those with low data speeds/limits/capacities to also be able to engage in the dialogue the images are there to represent. In these negotiations we can then understand Alt texts as a crip network practice that open us up to the many ways that access frictions has made space not only for those with visual impairment, but also those disabled from network intimacies by infrastructural limits and the ableist network norms.

The stickers I made for this are a mix of 3D rendered shaggy clouds and text, made out to be fluffy and soft, with long hair coming off of them. I also use one found free license images. Some of these say a mixture of statements in the fluffy text like "Lets get cozy" and "The cloud is finite , Coziness is infinite". They are simple and fun and can slip into other dialogues and conversations whilst also still presenting the politics clearly. Others are more abstract like a cozy shaggy version of Arpanet, an early US military research network. The Alt texts that I wrote for them are made up of two to three sentences, each poetically setting scenes and forming figures and relations to imagine these intentions in action. These image and alt texts configuring out room form me to question how I wanted to orient away from militarised digital networks of domination and instead towards constellations of care. Each pair forming a nonlinear promise of these intentions of crip access, affirmation and justice within network infrastructures.

When making these in 3D software I reflected on the other sticker packs that had come before, especially those that emerged around the work of *Volumetric Regimes* (Rocha and Snelting 2022) which questioned the norms of 3D practices and imaginaries. The *We have always been geohackers* (Pritchard et al. 2021) essay, which I work with closely in the methods section (chap), is a part of this book and shows the ways 3D space normalises extractive centralised perspective approaches. With these complexities weighing on me I turned to approaches of Cripping CGI (Decker, 2023; Saucedo & Decker, 2023) where bringing crip bodies and imaginaries into 3D space forms frictions around the norms and limits of what bodies these technologies can make space for and represent. Informed by this I began to make room for myself to work in this 3D space to form alternative crip imaginaries and world buildings of what this network infrastructures can be and make room for. With this orientation towards not only cripping 3D but also those of network imaginaries I formed these soft fluffy clouds, words of affirmation and appropriated open source images to start to build this cozy world and configuring wiggle rooms for these politics.

To present these sticker on the server, I used a light weight content managment system (CMS) called Pico to show them. For this I also modified a theme by Winnie Soon called Soonish to make it more accessible, a cozy colour theme, and called it cozy-ish. For the installed cozy relaxation space I also made a printed easy read version so that people could engage with them in a number of ways and not just through a browser which can be a barrier to access. To accompany the installation I had a set of cozy-cloud pillows made . These were very much real world versions of the clouds in the stickers, with soft shaggy fabric that you can hold and made room for another way to feel out, sense and imagine the intentions of this crip server. These different avenues aimed to offer the multiplicity of a crip server, both online, offline, and in touch with affective embodied ways of relating to it's intentions.

Alongside this I also tried to do a rudimentary version of docs to try and practice these technologies through critical accessibility. These are now defunct but informedmy work with In-grid in making the Servpub docs. Here specifically thinking through how to enable technological dialogues around network infrastructures to be more accessible within crip spaces influenced by Kelsie Acton's "Plain-ish Language"(2023), and which I discuss in more depth "in-docs" (chap).

[^r4]: https://signal.art/addstickers/\#pack\_id=1f930e15864f32d21ff3d4daeb5c34b8&pack\_key=7d3aed79d95f135c70350190b3911151ac782db547eafba6bf0d67f92b63ea3a
[^r5]: https://signal.art/addstickers/\#pack\_id=f998894a4595a1b4791a648f24e1e16d&pack\_key=6953c272698ffce39d7a32c0bbf2d040a46dfb3a66c800873d2d6ed649ba372d
[^r6]: https://signal.art/addstickers/\#pack\_id=6e69c3260e3c7378c0f35b86342e6f72&pack\_key=f6940570bf17201e7288874ced7e32098df100705dc7862af3c2c026b32a8f9a
[^r7]: https://alt-text-as-poetry.net/
