## thoughts

counter platforms as refusal of big tech platforms to orient towards other stages as places to manifest. like sins making room for other bodies and forms on these platforms and stages to express and feel out their own performance of living in the role, relations and infrastructures.

## Futures x Desires x Reflections

It is hard to say a lot in reflection when the Cozy-Cloud still has so much going on in the present and planned for the future. I can say though that as this cozier looking cloud comes into reach on my horizon, it is starting to feel a lil more snug. These projects have oriented my initial configure-ableactions and where I made wiggle room within network infrastructures norm for Cozy-Cloud to emerge.In this orientation it has shares how I/we have tried to crip network infrastructuring practices through the embodied frictions we felt when being in contact with them. This has been by both cripping the technical and social relations through inquiring into how the sediment limits and contours of these practices made room for our bodily horizons in practice, or not. Within the technical approach it made room for us to develop conceptual and critical infrastructures that made room for crip s to disorient the backgrounds, figures, relations, politics, times and actions of network infrastructuring right now. In the social refusing of friction-less dominant norms of how these systems come into being, and instead disorienting them through centreing and developing ways to care for these frictions as we feel them in action..

This inquiry into a configure-able Cozy-Cloud has,as I have covered in the last three sections, manifested a few outcomes. Firstly a Crip feeling and figuring out as method and care-full work, here predominantly retreating from institutional norms, but in doing so questioning how and caring for what we bring into contact with these institutions when we do. Here with the retreat as crip manifestation, acknowledging that we can never really escape these institutions, even when you leave like Ahmed(2016). In this retreat though, like Ahmed, we can think about what we surface, how we de-sediment these lines and bring Crip/marginalized issues onto the bodily horizon of both computing and academia. More importantly though is also what we gain agency over on our own bodily horizons, and how we can start to de-center expertise to gain flexibility for our actions, intentions, and futures within hopefully softer institutional limits.

Now looking into the present and futures more, the Cozy-Cloud is slowly building up our community of members at a gentle pace. In this orientation we are now focused on how to make it accessible to more intersectional disability community as well as working with each other more easily. Technically this has looked like re-doing the website to make it a little less technically/accesibly fritcious and multi-user friendly, by moving it to Bludit CMS. This has a combination of flexibility for users, as well as good docs, and being relatively lightweight/low energy both for the server and reciever. To build this up I also designed a custom theme for it called *cozy night+day*, that not only has a cozy light and dark mode, but more importantly is encoded to automatically pick up text with an easy reader to make it even more accessible. We have also opened up space through a form for crip community to host websites, infrastructures and services for free on the server. From a social side this for me has been a lot of slowing down, having patience and not feeling my "normative" webdev and super user urges to manage situations and prescribe problems, and instead orient to making wiggle room for one another to be experts, and reassuring each other that this is fine to take our sweet crip ass time moving towards accessible network infrastructures.

As we build up towards the future together slowly, asynchronously, all over the place but also together right now, I am very content to keep orienting towards crip coziness and working independenlty through the frictions that we feel when working together with these technologies. Manifesting Coziness not only as a practice to care for the frictions of the day, but also as a promise and a destination at the end of many long days, weeks, years and life-times.













