## Manifesting intentions

This first manifesting of the server explores its initiation and intentions. This part of the Cozy-Cloud's development is very much set in the background of the residency at the BDFI. For this, I had originally planned to set up an autonomous sever for hosting community services by and for a crip community. This autonomous VPN setup configured the server to be able to move around and be installed as a crip cozy relaxation space at events, sharing and manifesting accessible crip cloud imaginaries as it goes.

Throughout this residency period, and as I have mention in the "The research table", it was a lot harder to work with this institution and research group than I anticipated. This led me to reduceing what I did for this exhibition, and instead of trying to form a disabled community within these inflexible relations, I started to think more about sharing the intentions I had for the space in making it. In this I was thinking about how to make accessible the background that I was emerging this other figure of a Cozy-Cloud from, and its crip promise of access and affirmation. Here I am thinking to how Loiuse Amoore (2020) as well as Matt Spencer (2022) ask for other relations and backgrounds for the cloud to be made knowable and (con)figure-able through. Here by making room for these crip embodied relations to a server and counter figures of crip cloud, the Cozy-Cloud disorient these infrastructures knowledges and expertise through the situated plurality of a cozy crip community.

