# A Cozier Configure-Ability

This chapter reflects on my inquiry into the coalescing of the cozy-cloud as a crip and disability justice centered server. This Inquiry moves on from the embedded intersectional infrastructuring with In-grid which is covered in the last chapter , to instead orient to bringing these digital network infrastructures in touch with radical crip imaginaries and practices. In the last chapter I explored my collaborative practices through the axis of making room in systemic inflexibilities with In-grid in-flex-able collective practices.In this chapter the work of the Cozy-Cloud is examined through a few creative outcomes and artworks which take up this reseaches framing and act as different manifestings of crip politic enacted within infrastructure, and the troubling of relations that they unfold. In doing this I aim to share why crip infrastructures come into being and how these inquiries and their actions have made room for my collaborators and I to imagine and be in touch with other bodily horizons of network infrastructures that orient practices of interdependent care, maintenance and indeterminacy.

With these crip network manifestings in focus, I reflect on it in 4 parts, again initiated by a background for these figures to emerge from and that contours them. I then focus in on the crip intentions that I initiated this server with, reflecting on how I made space with within alt texts, sticker packs and the website to hold these non-linear imaginaries orienting towards life affirming network infrastructures. I follow this by reflecting on the Cozy-Clouds first collaboration with Mariana Marongoni and I, and where wemanifested chronic cron jobs to poetically crip the servers computational clock. I finish this chapter by looking to the future, of desires for crip manifesting and the ways I have started to foster and enable this with collaborators on the Cozy-Cloud.

