{\rtf \li720 \fi-720 \sl240 \slmult1 \sa240 Abrams, Emily J., Colleen E. Floyd, and Elisa S. Abes. 2024. \uc0\u8216{}Prioritizing Crip Futures: Applying Crip Theory to Create Accessible Academic Experiences in Higher Education\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Disability Studies Quarterly} 43 (4): 4. https://doi.org/10.18061/dsq.v43i4.8270.\
Acton, Kelsie. 2023. \uc0\u8216{}Plain Language for Disability Culture\uc0\u8217{}. In {\i{}Crip Authorship}, edited by Mara Mills and Rebecca Sanchez. New York University Press. https://doi.org/10.18574/nyu/9781479819386.003.0008.\
Acton, Kelsie. 2024. {\i{}Disability Intimacy: Essays on Love, Care, and Desire - Plain Language Version}. Edited by Alice Wong. Vintage Books, A division of Penguin Random House LLC.\
Ahmed, Sara. 2006. {\i{}Queer Phenomenology: Orientations, Objects, Others}. Duke University Press. https://doi.org/10.2307/j.ctv125jk6w.\
Ahmed, Sara. 2016a. {\i{}Living a Feminist Life}. Duke University Press. https://doi.org/10.2307/j.ctv11g9836.\
Ahmed, Sarah. 2016b. \uc0\u8216{}Equality Credentials\uc0\u8217{}. Feministkilljoys, June 10. https://feministkilljoys.com/2016/06/10/equality-credentials/.\
Albanese, Francesca. 2025. {\i{}A/HRC/59/23: From Economy of Occupation to Economy of Genocide - Report of the Special Rapporteur on the Situation of Human Rights in the Palestinian Territories Occupied since 1967 (Advance Edited Version)}. https://www.ohchr.org/en/documents/country-reports/ahrc5923-economy-occupation-economy-genocide-report-special-rapporteur.\
Alice Wong. 2017. \uc0\u8216{}DVP Interviews A-Z\uc0\u8217{}. Disability Visibility Project, January 5. https://disabilityvisibilityproject.com/dvp-interviews/.\
Amoore, Louise. 2020. {\i{}Cloud Ethics: Algorithms and the Attributes of Ourselves and Others}. Duke University Press. https://doi.org/10.1215/9781478009276.\
Aouragh, Miriyam, Nishat Awan, Gwendolin Barnard, et al. 2021a. \uc0\u8216{}EU Digital COVID Certificates: When Governments Move Fast and Break Things\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Github} 84 (May). https://westminsterresearch.westminster.ac.uk/item/vw12z/eu-digital-covid-certificates-when-governments-move-fast-and-break-things.\
Aouragh, Miriyam, Nishat Awan, Gwendolin Barnard, et al. 2021b. \uc0\u8216{}EU Digital COVID Certificates: When Governments Move Fast and Break Things \uc0\u183{} Issue #84 \uc0\u183{} Ehn-Dcc-Development/Eu-Dcc-Hcert-Spec\uc0\u8217{}. GitHub, May 28. https://github.com/ehn-dcc-development/eu-dcc-hcert-spec/issues/84.\
Aouragh, Miriyam, Seda G\uc0\u252{}rses, Helen V. Pritchard, et al. (2017) 2024a. \uc0\u8216{}Frontier Climate: a bug report\uc0\u8217{}. March 14, February 9. https://github.com/stripe/openapi/issues/145.\
Aouragh, Miriyam, Seda G\uc0\u252{}rses, Helen V. Pritchard, et al. (2017) 2024b. {\i{}Frontier Climate: A Bug Report}. February 9. https://titipi.org/wiki/index.php/Frontier.\
Aouragh, Miriyam, Helen Pritchard, and Femke Snelting. 2020a. {\i{}The Long Tail of Contact Tracing - Titipi}. April 10. https://titipi.org/wiki/index.php/The_long_tail_of_contact_tracing.\
Aouragh, Miriyam, Helen Pritchard, and Femke Snelting. 2020b. \uc0\u8216{}\uc0\u8220{}The long tail of contact tracing\uc0\u8221{} (societal impact of CT) \uc0\u183{} Issue #118 \uc0\u183{} DP-3T/documents\uc0\u8217{}. GitHub, April 10. https://github.com/DP-3T/documents/issues/118.\
Barad, Karen. 2007. {\i{}Meeting the Universe Halfway: Quantum Physics and the Entanglement of Matter and Meaning}. Duke University Press. https://doi.org/10.2307/j.ctv12101zq.\
\uc0\u8216{}Benefits Crackdown Unveiled with Aim to Save \uc0\u163{}5bn a Year by 2030 - BBC News\uc0\u8217{}. n.d. Accessed 15 August 2025. https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c89y30nel59o.\
Benjamin, Ruha. 2020. {\i{}Race after Technology: Abolitionist Tools for the New Jim Code}. Reprinted. Polity.\
Britton, Ren Loren, and Helen Pritchard. 2022. \uc0\u8216{}For Careful Slugs: Caring for Unknowing in CS (Computer Science)\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Catalyst: Feminism, Theory, Technoscience} 8 (2): 2. https://doi.org/10.28968/cftt.v8i2.37723.\
Bruder, Johannes. 2023. \uc0\u8216{}AI as Medium and Message: The (Im)Possibility of a Queer Response\uc0\u8217{}. In {\i{}Queer Reflections on AI}. Routledge.\
Chun, Wendy Hui Kyong, and Alex Barnett. 2021. {\i{}Discriminating Data: Correlation, Neighborhoods, and the New Politics of Recognition}. The MIT Press.\
CIA. 1944. {\i{}Simple Sabotage Field Manual}. http://archive.org/details/simple-sabotage-field-manual-cia-1944.\
Clare, Eli. 2017. {\i{}Brilliant Imperfection: Grappling with Cure}. Duke University Press. https://doi.org/10.2307/j.ctv1168bcj.\
Constant. 2015. \uc0\u8216{}One Version of \uc0\u8220{}The Feminist Server Manifesto\uc0\u8221{}\uc0\u8217{}. https://areyoubeingserved.constantvzw.org/Summit_afterlife.xhtml.\
Crenshaw, Kimberle. 1991. \uc0\u8216{}Mapping the Margins: Intersectionality, Identity Politics, and Violence against Women of Color\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Stanford Law Review} 43 (6): 1241\uc0\u8211{}99. https://doi.org/10.2307/1229039.\
Crenshaw, Kimberle. 2015. \uc0\u8216{}Demarginalizing the Intersection of Race and Sex: A Black Feminist Critique of Antidiscrimination Doctrine, Feminist Theory and Antiracist Politics\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}University of Chicago Legal Forum} 1989 (1). https://chicagounbound.uchicago.edu/uclf/vol1989/iss1/8.\
{\i{}Crip AI \uc0\u8211{} Towards Disability Led-Design}. 2021. Performed by Louise Hickman. 6:44. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kWyHusyCB0s.\
Davide Bevilacqua. 2024. {\i{}Artists Running Data Centers 2024}. http://archive.org/details/artists-running-data-centers-2024.\
Decker, Nat. 2023. \uc0\u8216{}Crip Aesthetics, Art: An Interview with Nat Decker \uc0\u8211{} Disability Archives Lab\uc0\u8217{}. Interview by Sam Pappas. April 3. https://disabilityarchiveslab.com/blog/crip-aesthetics-art-an-interview-with-nat-decker/.\
Dhami, Annette. 2023. \uc0\u8216{}Life-Affirming Organisational Practice: An In-Person Practice Lab\uc0\u8217{}. Darkmatterlabs on Notion, September. https://darkmatterlabs.notion.site/Life-Affirming-Organisational-Practice-An-In-Person-Practice-Lab-Sep-2023-a777b3befcd34c9aa6ef496da431f818.\
Ella Parry-Davies, dir. 2022. \uc0\u8216{}Coming Out Crip and Acts of Care\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Arts & Ideas}. BBC Sounds, August 10. 13:14. https://www.bbc.co.uk/sounds/play/p0cs04pq.\
Fahs, Breanne, ed. 2020. {\i{}Burn It down! Feminist Manifestos for the Revolution}. Verso.\
Forlano, Laura. 2023. \uc0\u8216{}Living Intimately with Machines: Can AI Be Disabled?\uc0\u8217{} {\i{}Interactions} 30 (1): 24\uc0\u8211{}29. https://doi.org/10.1145/3572808.\
Freeman, Elizabeth. 2010. \uc0\u8216{}Deep Lez: Temporal Drag and the Specters of Feminism\uc0\u8217{}. In {\i{}Time Binds}. Queer Temporalities, Queer Histories. Duke University Press. https://doi.org/10.2307/j.ctv1198v7z.7.\
Gearty, Margaret Rose, and Judi Marshall. 2021. \uc0\u8216{}Living Life as Inquiry \uc0\u8211{} a Systemic Practice for Change Agents\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Systemic Practice and Action Research} 34 (4): 441\uc0\u8211{}62. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11213-020-09539-4.\
Gebru, Timnit, and \uc0\u201{}mile P. Torres. 2024. \uc0\u8216{}The TESCREAL Bundle: Eugenics and the Promise of Utopia through Artificial General Intelligence\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}First Monday}, ahead of print, April 14. https://doi.org/10.5210/fm.v29i4.13636.\
G\uc0\u252{}rses, Seda, Helen V. Pritchard, Femke Snelting, and Miriyam Aouragh. 2022. \uc0\u8216{}Small c vs. big C: How Computational Infrastructures Capture Technical and Social Imaginary for Public Life\uc0\u8217{}. March 4. https://spui25.nl/programma/small-c-vs-big-c.\
Hamraie, Aimi. 2017. \uc0\u8216{}Flexible Users: From the Average Body to a Range of Users\uc0\u8217{}. In {\i{}Building Access}. Universal Design and the Politics of Disability. University of Minnesota Press. https://doi.org/10.5749/j.ctt1pwt79d.6.\
Hamraie, Aimi. 2023. \uc0\u8216{}Crip Making\uc0\u8217{}. In {\i{}Crip Authorship: Disability as Method}, edited by Mara Mills and Rebecca Sanchez. New York University Press.\
Hamraie, Aimi, and Kelly Fritsch. 2019. \uc0\u8216{}Crip Technoscience Manifesto\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Catalyst: Feminism, Theory, Technoscience} 5 (1): 1. https://doi.org/10.28968/cftt.v5i1.29607.\
Hanna, Alex, and Emily M. Bender, dirs. 2022. {\i{}Episode 3: \uc0\u8216{}Can Machines Learn To Behave?\uc0\u8217{} Part 3}. https://www.buzzsprout.com/2126417/episodes/13068571-episode-3-can-machines-learn-to-behave-part-3-september-23-2022.\
Haraway, Donna. 2006. \uc0\u8216{}A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology, and Socialist-Feminism in the Late 20th Century\uc0\u8217{}. In {\i{}The International Handbook of Virtual Learning Environments}, edited by Joel Weiss, Jason Nolan, Jeremy Hunsinger, and Peter Trifonas. Springer Netherlands. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4020-3803-7_4.\
Hedva, Johanna. 2019. \uc0\u8216{}Hedva\uc0\u8217{}s Disability Access Rider\uc0\u8217{}. Tumblr. {\i{}Sick Woman Theory}, August 22. https://sickwomantheory.tumblr.com/post/187188672521/hedvas-disability-access-rider?ref=futuress.org.\
Hong, Renyi. 2024a. \uc0\u8216{}Plasticity: Accounting for Adaptation in Sociotechnical Systems. | EBSCOhost\uc0\u8217{}. January 1. https://openurl.ebsco.com/contentitem/gcd:185245468?sid=ebsco:plink:crawler&id=ebsco:gcd:185245468.\
Hong, Renyi. 2024b. \uc0\u8216{}Curative Platforms: Disability, Access, and Food Delivery Work in Singapore\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}New Media & Society} 26 (5): 2593\uc0\u8211{}613. https://doi.org/10.1177/14614448221090638.\
In-grid. 2025. \uc0\u8216{}Docs:03.2 Tinc Server Side Prep - Wiki4print\uc0\u8217{}. February 19. https://wiki4print.servpub.net/index.php?title=Docs:03.2_Tinc_server_side_prep.\
Kafai, Shayda. 2021. {\i{}Crip Kinship: The Disability Justice & Art Activism of Sins Invalid}. Arsenal Pulp Press.\
Kafer, Alison. 2013. {\i{}Feminist, Queer, Crip}. Indiana University Press.\
Kafer, Alison. 2017. \uc0\u8216{}Health Rebels: A Crip Manifesto for Social Justice\uc0\u8217{}. April 6. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YqcOUD1pBKw.\
Kafer, Alison. 2021. \uc0\u8216{}After Crip, Crip Afters\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}South Atlantic Quarterly} 120 (2): 415\uc0\u8211{}34. https://doi.org/10.1215/00382876-8916158.\
Kafer, Alison. 2023. \uc0\u8216{}Manifesting Manifestos\uc0\u8217{}. In {\i{}Crip Authorship: Disability as Method}, edited by Mara Mills and Rebecca Sanchez. New York University Press. https://doi.org/10.18574/nyu/9781479819386.001.0001.\
Kevin Gotkin. 2021. \uc0\u8216{}Transmissions: Kevin Gotkin\uc0\u8217{}. Artists-In-Presidents. https://www.artistsinpresidents.com/kevin-gotkin.\
Krajewski, Markus, and Ilinca Iurascu. 2018. {\i{}The Server: A Media History from the Present to the Baroque}. Yale University Press. https://doi.org/10.12987/9780300186802.\
Laura Forlano. 2016. {\i{}Hacking the Feminist Disabled Body\uc0\u8239{}\uc0\u187{} The Journal of Peer Production}. March. http://peerproduction.net/issues/issue-8-feminism-and-unhacking-2/peer-reviewed-papers/issue-8-feminism-and-unhackingpeer-reviewed-papers-2hacking-the-feminist-disabled-body/.\
Lifchez, Raymond, and Barbara Winslow. 1979. {\i{}Design for Independent Living: The Environment and Physically Disabled People}. Whitney Library of Design.\
Lorde, Audre. 1997. \uc0\u8216{}The Uses of Anger\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Women\uc0\u8217{}s Studies Quarterly} 25 (1/2): 278\uc0\u8211{}85.\
Lury, Celia, William Viney, and Scott Wark. 2022. \uc0\u8216{}Introduction: Figure, Figuring and Configuration\uc0\u8217{}. In {\i{}Figure}, edited by Celia Lury, William Viney, and Scott Wark. Springer Nature Singapore. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-2476-7_1.\
Maia Davies. 2025. \uc0\u8216{}NHS Plans to DNA Test All Babies in England to Assess Disease Risk\uc0\u8217{}. Health. {\i{}BBC News}, June 21. https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c1ljg7v0vmpo.\
Maier, Sophia, V. Jo Hsu, Christina V Cedillo, and M. Remi Yergeau. 2020. {\i{}GET THE FRAC IN! Or, The Fractal Many-Festo: A (Trans)(Crip)T1}. August 12. https://cfshrc.org/article/get-the-frac-in-or-the-fractal-many-festo-a-transcript/.\
Margaret Price. 2011. {\i{}Mad At School Rhetorics Of Mental Disability And Academic Life}. http://archive.org/details/price-mad-at-school-rhetorics-of-mental-disability-and-academic-life.\
Marshall, Judi. 1999. \uc0\u8216{}Living Life as Inquiry\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Systemic Practice and Action Research} 12 (2): 155\uc0\u8211{}71. https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1022421929640.\
Marshall, Judi. 2004. \uc0\u8216{}Living Systemic Thinking: Exploring Quality in First-Person Action Research\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Action Research} 2 (3): 305\uc0\u8211{}25. https://doi.org/10.1177/1476750304045945.\
Mills, China. 2018. \uc0\u8216{}\uc0\u8220{}Dead People Don\uc0\u8217{}t Claim\uc0\u8221{}: A Psychopolitical Autopsy of UK Austerity Suicides\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Critical Social Policy} 38 (2): 302\uc0\u8211{}22. https://doi.org/10.1177/0261018317726263.\
Mills, China, and John Pring. 2024. \uc0\u8216{}Weaponising Time in the War on Welfare: Slow Violence and Deaths of Disabled People within the UK\uc0\u8217{}s Social Security System\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Critical Social Policy} 44 (1): 129\uc0\u8211{}49. https://doi.org/10.1177/02610183231187588.\
Mills, Mara, and Rebecca Sanchez, eds. 2023. {\i{}Crip Authorship: Disability as Method}. New York University Press. https://doi.org/10.18574/nyu/9781479819386.001.0001.\
Mingus, Mia. 2017a. \uc0\u8216{}Access Intimacy, Interdependence and Disability Justice\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Leaving Evidence}, April 12. https://leavingevidence.wordpress.com/2017/04/12/access-intimacy-interdependence-and-disability-justice/.\
Mingus, Mia. 2017b. \uc0\u8216{}Forced Intimacy: An Ableist Norm\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Leaving Evidence}, August 6. https://leavingevidence.wordpress.com/2017/08/06/forced-intimacy-an-ableist-norm/.\
Pritchard, H., J. Rocha, and F. Snelting. 2021. \uc0\u8216{}We Have Always Been Geohackers\uc0\u8217{}. http://hdl.handle.net/10026.1/18174.\
Pritchard, Helen, Miriyam Aouragh, Jara Rocha, Seda G\uc0\u252{}rses, and Femke Snelting. 2024. \uc0\u8216{}Bugreporting on Anticipatory Infra-Solutionism: Collective Practices of Struggle and Resistance.\uc0\u8217{} 4S/EASST, July 17. https://nomadit.co.uk/conference/easst-4s2024/paper/84573.\
Pritchard, Helen V. 2022. \uc0\u8216{}Clumsy Volumetrics - Volumetric Regimes\uc0\u8217{}. August 23. https://volumetricregimes.xyz/index.php?title=Clumsy_Volumetrics.\
Rob Pegoraro. 2023. \uc0\u8216{}Zoom Revises Terms (Again) to Say It\uc0\u8217{}s Not Using Your Data to Train AI Models at All\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}PCMAG}, August 11. https://www.pcmag.com/news/zoom-revises-terms-after-changes-spark-fears-of-ai-learning-from-video.\
Rocha, Jara, and Femke Snelting. 2017. \uc0\u8216{}The Possible Bodies Inventory: Dis-Orientation and Its Aftermath\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}INMATERIAL. Dise\uc0\u241{}o, Arte y Sociedad} 2 (3): 43\uc0\u8211{}60. https://doi.org/10.46516/inmaterial.v2.29.\
Rocha, Jara, and Femke Snelting. 2022. {\i{}Volumetric Regimes: Material Cultures of Quantified Presence}. Open Humanites Press. https://www.openhumanitiespress.org/books/titles/volumetric-regimes/.\
\uc0\u8216{}ROCK REPO\uc0\u8217{}. n.d. Accessed 30 June 2025. https://ddivision.xyz/rockrepo/.\
Samuels, Ellen. 2017. \uc0\u8216{}Six Ways of Looking at Crip Time\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Disability Studies Quarterly} 37 (3): 3. https://doi.org/10.18061/dsq.v37i3.5824.\
Sandahl, Carrie. 2003. \uc0\u8216{}QUEERING THE CRIP OR CRIPPING THE QUEER?: Intersections of Queer and Crip Identities in Solo Autobiographical Performance\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}GLQ: A Journal of Lesbian and Gay Studies} 9 (1\uc0\u8211{}2): 25\uc0\u8211{}56. https://doi.org/10.1215/10642684-9-1-2-25.\
Sarah Ahmed. 2014. \uc0\u8216{}Wiggle Room\uc0\u8217{}. Feministkilljoys, September 28. https://feministkilljoys.com/2014/09/28/wiggle-room/.\
Saucedo, Cielo, and Nat Decker. 2023. \uc0\u8216{}Cripping_Computer_Graphics: Perspectives on Disability Representation in CG via Community Generated 3D Asset Library\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}First Monday}, February 7. https://firstmonday.org/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/12900.\
Sheppard, Alice. 2019. \uc0\u8216{}Staging Bodies, Performing Ramps: Cultural, Aesthetic Disability Technoscience\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Catalyst: Feminism, Theory, Technoscience} 5 (1): 1. https://doi.org/10.28968/cftt.v5i1.30459.\
Silver, David, Aja Huang, Chris J. Maddison, et al. 2016. \uc0\u8216{}Mastering the Game of Go with Deep Neural Networks and Tree Search\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Nature} 529 (7587): 484\uc0\u8211{}89. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature16961.\
Silver, David, Thomas Hubert, Julian Schrittwieser, et al. 2017. \uc0\u8216{}Mastering Chess and Shogi by Self-Play with a General Reinforcement Learning Algorithm\uc0\u8217{}. arXiv:1712.01815. no. arXiv:1712.01815. Preprint, arXiv, December 5. http://arxiv.org/abs/1712.01815.\
Simms, George, and Mariana Marangoni. 2025. \uc0\u8216{}En-Crip-Ing Time\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Brand-New-Life}, February 26. https://brand-new-life.org/b-n-l/en-crip-ing-time/.\
Simms, George, Katie Tindle, Becky Aston, Sunni Liao, Hazel Ryan, and Yewen Jin. 2024. \uc0\u8216{}Femfester\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Artists Running Data Centers} 1 (1): 74\uc0\u8211{}77.\
Snelting, Femke, Jara Rocha, and Karl Moubarak. 2024. {\i{}Hamaca: A Platform Report}. https://hamacaonline.net/media/publicacio/hamaca%20platform%20report.pdf.\
Spencer, Matt. 2022. \uc0\u8216{}Engines, Puppets, Promises: The Figurations of Configuration Management\uc0\u8217{}. In {\i{}Figure: Concept and Method}, edited by Celia Lury, William Viney, and Scott Wark. Springer Nature Singapore. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-2476-7_6.\
Spencer, Matt, and Daniele Pizio. 2024. \uc0\u8216{}The De-Perimeterisation of Information Security: The Jericho Forum, Zero Trust, and Narrativity\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Social Studies of Science} 54 (5): 655\uc0\u8211{}77. https://doi.org/10.1177/03063127231221107.\
Suchman, L. 2012. \uc0\u8216{}Configuration\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Inventive Methods}, 62\uc0\u8211{}74.\
Terry, David P. 2016. \uc0\u8216{}Explanation Not Excuse: Attention Deficit Disorder, Collegiality and Coalition\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}Disability Studies Quarterly} 36 (2): 2. https://doi.org/10.18061/dsq.v36i2.4447.\
TITiPI, Stevie Ango, and Clyde Lepage. 2022. \uc0\u8216{}Infrables\uc0\u8217{}. May 18. https://titipi.org/wiki/index.php/Unfolding:Infrables.\
Waidner, Isabel. 2019. {\i{}We Are Made of Diamond Stuff}. A Dostoyevsky Wannabe Original. Dostoyevsky Wannabe Originals.\
Wernick, Laura J. 2023. \uc0\u8216{}Learning Disability Justice through Critical Participatory Action Research\uc0\u8217{}. In {\i{}Crip Authorship: Disability as Method}, edited by Mara Mills and Rebecca Sanchez. New York University Press. https://doi.org/10.18574/nyu/9781479819386.001.0001.\
Yeung, Tinshui. n.d. \uc0\u8216{}Starmer Climbs down on Disability Benefits Cuts after Rebellion by Labour MPs\uc0\u8217{}. BBC News. Accessed 15 August 2025. https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/live/cj937xylzyet.\
}