### In-configure-ability

[05_In-Configure-Ability](../../05_In-Configure-Ability/05_In-Configure-Ability.md) covers one of the inquiries into situating Configure-Able methods within embedded collective practice. To do this I collaborated with In-grid, which I helped to set up in 2020. In this context, I worked with the collective to situate Configure-Able methods within our practices to make roo m to figure out both how we wanted to organise ourselves and our digital network infrastructure together. In doing this, we also queried how we were organised by the inherited relations of our pre-existing social and technical infrastructures that we came together through. To inquire into this with In-grid, I have been working through Disobedient AR to practise how these Configure-Able methods can come into being over a reasonable period of time (2+ years) and within an embedded intersectional community. To reflect on this collaboration I undertook research with a focus group, where In-grid members collectively figured out our organisational practises together and thinking through how we were oriented and flexed by a hard system, and how we refused these normalised tables and relations, to feel out our own . I follow this up with a first person AR reflections around In-grid's technical knowledge sharing practices, informing the group both with Kelsie Acton's notion of *Plain Language* (2023) to make room for us to reorient through access. I also work with In-grid to develop the practising protocols workshops for 4S/EASST and which I went on to run and reflect on through an internal workshop with members where we configured out our network infrastructures together. This internal workshop also lead to us writing and publishing In-grid's itteration of the *Feminist Server Manifesto* (Constant 2015), called the Femfester which was published in the first edition of *Artist Running Datacentres* jounral (Simms et al. 2024).

This chapter aims to coalesce the many scales that I have been manifesting Configure-Able methods within my collaborations with In-grid. By situating these methods in an intersectional collective I offer up how critical access can not only be an extra we add on to our social and technical practices but a thing we can orient and action directly from in generative ways. In this move it shares how in this collaboration we made room to configure and plan together from the sites of friction and impact that we felt together. This room for collective access and the practices that emerged transformed the roles of users through the validation of their expertise and making the skills and capacities to enact these feelings within reach.

