### Disability justice and life affirmation flipping the table

In [01_Disability justice and life affirmation flipping the table](../../01_Disability%20justice%20and%20life%20affirmation%20flipping%20the%20table/01_Disability%20justice%20and%20life%20affirmation%20flipping%20the%20table.md) I form the critical framing of my research. The fields I work across here are Queer Feminism, crip theory, and Feminist STS. I initially align with Sarah Ahmed's *Queer Phenomenology* (2006) to think through her concepts of *orientation*, *sedimentation* and the *bodily horizon.* I do this to think around what is in reach, and how inherited relations can orient me so that my contingent (other queer) desires are out of reach. I also surface her *soft body* and the ways it make room for me to think about the impressions I make on others (and them on me) and the technologies we stay in touch with. With Kafer's concepts I aim to highlight the situated ways of approaching technologies through social relations, as well as the capacity to mutually affect and transform them and the ways I practice them through radical Queer and crip politics.

I then orient closely to crip theory to feel out the radical politics that I want to put in touch with these bodies of technoscience, network infrastructuring and collective organising. To do this I take up a reading of Alison Kafer's *Feminist, Queer and crip*, (2013) among other works, to emerge my own understanding of her Political/Relational Model, crip time, and a crip intersectionality. With these I highlight an understanding of crip theory as a place that has the capacity to disorient our inherited and normalised organisation and networking practices through the radical capacities of interdependence, care and critical access. With Kafer I also take up a close reading of her figure of the disabled body in technology, or the cyborg, stepping out of line to be a situated body and horizon to map and configure technologies on their own terms.

With Kafer's later *Manifesting Manifestos* (2023) and her *Health Rebels* (2017) talk, I bring about the crip manifesto and manifestings as a practice and framing for this research. As Kafer describes it, how can we form a crazed practice of crip manifestos, each imperfection, flaw and friction offering each iteration orientation towards a future crips need and desire now. Here I also touch on Aimi Hamraie and Kelly Fritsch's *crip Technoscience Manifesto* (2019) to orient this crazed crip manifesting towards STS and to inquire more closely into the social and technical practices of infrastructures. Their manifesto importantly for this work offering up how friction is felt and made felt by others through the direct action of crip technoscience. With them I take this up in my research to ask how we can centre the knowledge of people at the sites of impact within the infrastructures that not only support their communities but affirm their lives.

With this chapter I aim to offer up this approach of a crazed crip manifesting of manifestos as a way to orient my research away from the inherited and sedimented norms of collective infrastructures. Through these practices of manifesting disorientations I aim to bring in reach a practice of community network infrastructuring that draws from crip Theory and a version of STS that is sensitive to the inaccessibility of roles, language and politics that science and technology normalise.

