### A Cozier Configure-Ability

[06_A Cozier Configure-Ability](../../06_A%20Cozier%20Configure-Ability/06_A%20Cozier%20Configure-Ability.md) reflects on a second inquiry into Configure-Able methods. In this context I wanted to inquire into how I could start to form a crip centred network practice. To do this I formed the Cozy-Cloud as a server space that was made for and by disabled people. This server acts as wiggle room for collaborators and me to try to configure out what life affirming network infrastructures might feel like together. This inquiry into a Configure-Able crip cloud is developed through both manifesting cripped technical infrastructure, but also the social relations of interdependent care and practices of design friction that were needed to not only produce but to maintain this crip network infrastructure. In this inquiry I surface two artistic works that share how these localised crip centred manifestations of Configure-Able methods have come into being.

The first work explores my manifesting of the intentions of the server as I initially made it. These intentions were made through developing a set of sticker and alt text pairs. This work by centring alt texts as medium configures access to the front of their composition to highlight the capacitythat access practices already have. These capacities of access in the alt texts both lay in them being able to communicate the images content to wider audiences with sensory differences, but also makes the alt text accessible within reduced internet bandwidth that cannot support images. Through these sticker and alt text pairs I poetically manifest a set of cozy intentions for the Cozy-Cloud to emerge from. Each of these forms their own multi-media orientation for what this server is intending to wiggle crip politics within. These intentions in message orient towards forming network infrastructures that do not rely on imaginaries of infinite growth and exhaustive relations. They intend to do this by making room for computational practices and network infrastructures that consciously move away from their militaristic origins and imaginaries. Alongside these intentions I also manifested the Cozy-Cloud relaxation space for people to be in reach of this crip server infrastructure and its cozy intentions in a relaxing calm space. To emphasise this multi-sensory and media set of intentions I also made cozy fluffy cushions, a printable easy read version of the cozy intentions and physical versions of the stickers, so that those visiting can interact and feel these intentions through in a way that is comfy and accessible to them.

The second work I surface in this chapter is that of the En-crip-ing Time, which was a collaboration with Marianna Marongoni[^q9]. This work was our inquiry into how to crip both the time and intimacies of the Cozy-Cloud server and its relations to network practices. To do this we configured out our own poetic performance of cron jobs (deterministic and routine maintenance jobs on Unix operating systems) as chronic jobs (indeterminate, indefinite care and maintenance through intimacy). To make room for crip times here we hacked multiple bits of code and syntax to make wiggle room within the existing infrastructure and limits of network time for our poetic crip times. In this work we also highlight the ways we made the infrastructure together, and how we made room for each other and our needs so that this crip infrastructure could come into being. I also touch upon the essay that we wrote for Brand-New-Life about the work (Simms & Marangoni, 2025), and where we try to blur the boundaries, variability and formats of academic texts to both hold technical dialogues, but also the very crip feeling Marianna and I had around them.

I conclude the chapter by both reflecting back at these projects and how they have transformed network practices by bring them in touch with crip bodies, tables and politics, but also to orient forward to the futures that the Cozy-Cloud is approaching. This future is one of slowly building up more collaborations and infrastructures to slowly feel out what accessible and configure-able crip network practices can be. Whatever may lay in the indeterminate future of the Cozy-Cloud, I know we will aim to carefully disorient the limits and futures of these network infrastructures together right now!

[^q9]: https://marianamarangoni.com/
