# Configure-able methods

This chapter covers the initial inquiry of my research, and the coalescing together of crip theory and critical access with that of Feminist Science and Technologies Studies (STS). In this chapter I wiggle together these research tables to make room for Configure-able methods to emerged from this research. This inquiry does feel a little like a second literature review in some places, and this is because I wanted to centre my approach from Crip studies within [01_Disability justice and life affirmation flipping the table](../../01_Disability%20justice%20and%20life%20affirmation%20flipping%20the%20table/01_Disability%20justice%20and%20life%20affirmation%20flipping%20the%20table.md) and in this chapter coalesce this with more of an accessible understanding of Feminist STS methods. To emerge this methodology I first trace a genealogy of configuration from its routes in figure and figuring (Lury et al., 2022) to that of Suchman’s definition of Configuration (2012). I then disorient it with an -able and critiques of critical access (Hamraie, 2017) and crip studies (Kafer, 2013) to question how configuration can be shaped when brought into contact with the dispersed and indeterminate practices, bodies and expertise of access in action. In reflection of my experiences configuring access for the _Configure-Able Infrastructures_ workshops I ran at NEoN I offer how critical access as a practice and method centres indeterminate localities and imperfect improvisations instead of the determined curative hard plans which forcefully shapes bodies and systems. With both Hamraie and Kafer, I question what the problem is within configurations, cripping it from isolated individualised issues to relational constraints of centralised plans. With this disorientation I also question how sedimented roles of user/designer/expert, prescribed/prescriber, or ethnographer/community can be reconfigured from the sites of impact and frictions within collective practices.  

