### Cripping Configuration

After returning to the crip table of critical access I want to return to the genealogy of configuration to coalesce it close, inflect it with -able and reorient it through these inquiries into configuring access. In this moving from that of the straight axis of STS and towards a crip queering of these methods. Part of this is to bring these methods in-touch with the framework of this project, but also as mentioned is to take up discourse of disability within feminist theory and configuration management, where it has been present but unmentioned. The latter move again informed by Kafer’s work discussed in [02.01.04_The crip table](../02_Crip-Tic%20of%20vignettes/02.01.04_The%20crip%20table.md), taking up disability in discourse where it is seen but not felt. Again by cripping the axis of configuration, and disobediently orienting it towards an abundance of crip futures, I am not discrediting the great work of Suchman, but setting it to another background and in reach of other figures and practices that can question its sedimented norms. This re-orienting of configuration for me is an action of the internal arch’s of this researcher’s inquiry. It is to think through how I relate to and practice organisational practices and theory through my embodied knowledge’s of crip methods and politics. It is also to feel how these internal ripples can diffract and make an impression on the path configuration takes as norm, and for crip studies to make room for this disorientation.

Here I reflect on the earlier two examples of configuration that Suchman gave to re-approach their methods of critiquing the differences between the prescribed plan and the situated actions of complex sociotechnical systems. The first thing that has to be noted here within her reflections of these inquiries is the absence of disabled voices, theory and experiences within this dialogues. Both clearly touch upon care systems, whether they were experimental data management systems or the actioning of metrified management of state care. Both of these case studies are well within reach of crip politics and lives. On looking throughout the paper the closest word to disability from a word search is fittingly that of “disappear” within the scentence:

“In this sense, the method assemblage of configuration could be understood as a device for articulating the relation between the ‘insides’ of a socio-technical system and its constitutive ‘outsides’, including all of those things that disappear in the system’s figuration as an object” (Suchman 2012, 55)

This is not to say that Suchman is intentionally disappearing disabled bodies and their experiences from configuring practices, but that the norms of institutional logics place them as outsiders of their own discourse. I could also provocatively read this as disabled practices of interdependence and embodied politics would trouble the neutrality of this STS axis too much, so are overruled to define a straight(er) line. Either reading, and the situated actions of Suchman’s definition have left disabled people un-agential and disabled within dialogues of our own life giving infrastructures. Below I take a closer reading of the two examples Suchman offers to highlight how crip politics could disorient these sedimented methods and wiggle them closer to my crip table and politics.

With Ranjini’s analysis of the “Vision 2020” scheme, Suchman’s focus on situated actions orients those of healthcare professionals in the field. This scoping only shows how these people have to cut corners, make up figures and hack metrics to maintain care within their districts. This scoping, even though showing a clear separation between plans of state management and situated actions of care on the ground, does not make room for the people who had to be a corner that was cut. Neither does it make room to highlight the violence that was enacted to people in need of care when their district was punished for not hitting target and so given ill funding. Included in the silencing of disabled experience within these relations is the lack of a crip critique of these dynamics. 

Here I aim to disorient these through both crip theories political relational model's expansive critique of cure narratives that Kafer offers (2013). In many ways the same methods of the medical model of disability are also implicated to those working within the infrastructure and organisation of healthcare in rural Andhra Pradesh, southern India. In Ranjini’s example the system was prescribed to be cured of problems of inefficiencies by neo-liberal efficiency logics of datafication and target hitting. This meant a few things, firstly that the problem is isolated within the health care system and the “treatment” given to cure it are data figure, metrics and targets. This is apparent in Ranjini's notes, where even though acknowledged by those having to hit them as semi-impossible in relation to the resources provided and the situated material relations of people and space, those figure, metrics and targets were still the only legitimate dialogue that could be had. These organisational practices from “district meetings revealed no opportunity for health workers or supervisors to provide explanations as to why targets could not be met, or to inform the setting of more appropriate ones through”(Ibid, 54). And the efficient logics inevitably led to penal systems where “If they do not achieve targets, they are punished. \[Of course], there is no reward. The reward is not being punished.”(Ranjini 2007, 113). This system’s configuration turning to a treatment of a penal reward system similar to that often used towards disabled people, from the ugly law through to the eugenic persecution of “feeble-minded” (Kafer 2013, 30–32). These penal logics also utalised by the AGI promises that I touch on in the [00.01_Background](../../00_Introduction/sections/00.01_Background.md) of the introduction, and which promise to emerge agent intelligent and their ability to understand the unknown. Through a crip understanding of the political/relational model though, these penal logics can be interpreted as disabling any relation they are introduced into. They do this by reducing the complex and nuanced relations of situated actions and embodied practices that sociotechnical systems emerge from down to a win/loose, valid/invalid equation. In doing so setting out a determinate action space and reducing the metrics of success to singular goals that are often unattainable within the material limits. The main issue my crip critique has is how it invalidates the reading of any alternative feedback or approach other than the desired unattainable goals/metrics and is by default not intimate with what it is being put in touch with. Much like Ruha Benjamin’s critique of datafication of the injustice[^2d], and my own experiences of [02.01.02_The computing table](../02_Crip-Tic%20of%20vignettes/02.01.02_The%20computing%20table.md), these systems and their policies prioritises data over everything else. With an analysis of crip time we can also understand this as gate-keeping needs from being met until the perfect data or cure (that is unachievable) is achieved, and in the process invalidating, irradicating and curing the squeezable bugs, temporary errors and bad data within the system.

The second example Suchman gives of Judith Gregory’s analysis of the HMO’s experimental data management system, similarly frames disabled people out of the dialogue. This is firstly through the works mapping of the different groups figured to be valid voices within the development of the data management system. Seemingly following the scoping set out by the HMO, the only valid groups are the HMO, the developers and the medical professionals. The closest they come to scoping in the disabled experience of care and their opinion is through the patient’s data, which is figured to be “always ready-to-hand”(Suchman 2012, 57). Echoing my own experience of being “cleen ready-to-use” for the operating table, this scoping misses the violence, objectification and industrialisation of care that such an efficient imaginary entails. This forceful shaping of the disabled bodies and patients into users in ready-to-use configurations painfully emanates the eugenic histories the Hamraie brings up with the flexible user (2017). This invalidation of voice and experience undermines the scoping of this configuration’s analysis, and for me begs for crip disobedient intervention. It is a place for me to refuse the expectation to be “always ready-to-hand” or "cleen reedy-to-use", and instead step out of line and question how I can situate plans and action from the sites of impact. In doing this giving those at greatest risk as well as benefit, access to and agency over how their infrastructures can affirm their current lives.

Searching for alternatives methods of configuration within Gregory’s critique of the HMO’s Suchman highlights Helen Verran’s notion of “working knowledges together”. In this notion Verran is figuring out methods to bring together indigenous people and a colonial state with very different imaginaries, capacities, practices and their knowledges into other intermediary spaces for dialogue. Gregory and Suchman highlight these indigenous land right discourses and methods as a way to think through how to disorient the power relations within plans, protocols and their negotiations. Verran’s “working knowledges together” is itself very interesting and has informed how I approach discourse and power relations within my approach to collective practices, but within the discourse of care systems it leaves me asking for a little more. This is not to say that indigenous studies is not applicable to disability discourse, it very much is in the ways that it, along with other positionalities, multiplies the crip experiences as I have mentioned in the crip table. Instead here specifically I wondered more why when they were looking outside of the medical management discourse and to disorient it, they didn’t move to critical-access or disability studies? Why not turn to Hamraie's critique of the flexible user (which wasn't written yet)? or to Sins in-valid's intersectional collective practices? Of coalition politics of disabled folks that go back decades? and of life affirming access practices and their knowledges? Here when Suchman and Gregory turn to the other outside of western discourse, they overlook the other being directly impacted by the system they are inquiring into. With this -able inflection I aim to disorient the normative access of STS that holds in place  these bodily horizons through these determined roles and invalidating relations. In doing this I not only start to practice how crip theory and its methods, politics and practices can disorient the norms, roles and divides of configuration practices, but also enables configuration to feedback from embodied collective practices, and ones that care for the sites of impact within configurations. 

Returning to Amoore's (2020) update of configuration, we can also witness how in many ways she makes room for this distribution of roles from the axis of user/designer, STS expert/practitioner, prescriber/prescribed, to move to those of interdependent and collective narrative making from many orientations, approaches and capacities. In this though she still manages to negate disability studies as being a place to pull from, instead turning to almost every other marginalised group but disability[^3d]. When we return to her work through critical access and crip theory, we could understand partiality as capactiy, and opacity as access. This transforms partiality, to be understood as a relational materiality, where I practice within a technologies capacities by configuring them out to understand them. It also refuses the boundary of opacity, to instead not conflate the sedimented roles and positions of configurations, but figure out their interdependent relations through understanding their access and capacity to reconfigure one another and the relations that hold them in place. Crip studies and critical access here provide not only another background to set these collective configuring methods from, but in doing so re-figures the approaches configuration can take towards complex sociotechnical systems.  


[^2d]: “The datafication of injustice ... in which the hunt for more and more data is a barrier to acting on what we already know. We need something like an academic equivalent of “I said what I said!” – the catchphrase of reality TV star NeNe Leakes – for those who insist on digging deeper and deeper into the genome for scientific solutions to social problems.” (R. Benjamin 2020, 117)
[^3d]: "It seems that the struggles of our contemporary moment — resisting the rise of far-right nationalist groups, racist doctrines of anti- immigration, the everyday violences of sexism, racism, and bigotry — confront also the profound difficulties of finding an opening at the limit of the frame. Indeed, many of our most important and difficult historical political struggles — anti-apartheid movements, the civil rights movement, campaigns for lgbtq+ rights — would arguably have been impeded by state access to algorithms that could learn to attribute future threats. In short, machine learning algorithms are actively making it more difficult for new ethicopolitical claims — those claims not already registered as claimable — to be made in the world. In this context, a cloud ethics must be able to locate ways of being together that resist the algorithmic forces 0f attribution." (Amoore, 2020, p. 170)

