# Configure-able methods

This chapter covers the initial inquiry of this research, and the coalescing together of crip theory and critical access with that of Feminist Science and Technologies Studies (STS). In this chapter I dance together these research tables to form an understanding of Configure-able methods that this has come from this research. The reflection on this inquiry does feel a little like a second literature review in some places, and this is because I wanted to centre my approach from Crip studies within [01_Disability justice and life affirmation flipping the table](../../01_Disability%20justice%20and%20life%20affirmation%20flipping%20the%20table/01_Disability%20justice%20and%20life%20affirmation%20flipping%20the%20table.md) and in this chapter coalesce this with more traditional Feminist STS methods. To emerge this methodology I first trace a genealogy of configuration from its routes in figure and figuring (Lury et al., 2022) to that of Suchman’s definition of Configuration(2012). I then disorient it with an -able through critiques of critical access (Hamraie, 2017) and crip studies (Kafer, 2013) to question how configuration can be disoriented when brought into contact with the dispersed and indeterminate practices, bodies and processes of a relational situated disability. Here I gesture to critical access as a place to centre indeterminate localities and imperfect improvisations instead of the determined plan. With both Hamraie and Kafer, I question what the problem is within configurations, moving it from isolated individualised issues to relational constraints of centralised plans. With this disorientation I also question how sedimented roles of user/designer, prescribed/prescriber, or ethnographer/community can be reconfigured through critical access.  

