## Inquiring into Critical access

Crip Access as a tool to think about the cloud relationally >>>>

Here too, a renaming can be of service not of us but
of our oppressors [83]. As Hughes a n d Hughes [84]
note, when we turn the tables and create epithets for
our oppressors, this may be a sign of a beginning
cohesiveness. Thus the growing popularity of terms
like T A B ' s and M A B ' s (temporarily or momentarily
able-bodied) to describe the general population
breaks down the separateness of 'us' and ' t h e m ' and
emphasizes the continuity and inevitability of "the
disability experience'. Thus, too, those who have
created the terms ' h a n d i c a p p i s m ' [85] and "healthism'
[68, 86, 87] equate these with all the structural '-isms"
in a society which operates to continue segregation
and discrimination. To return finally to the issue of
naming, the words of Philip D u n n e reflect well the
choices and consequences of language:
if we hope to survive in this terrifying age, we must choose
our words as we choose our actions. We should think how
what we say might sound to other ears as well as to our own.
Above all, we should strive for clarity ...
... if clarity [is] the essence of style, it is also the heart and
soul of truth, and it is for want of truth that human freedom
could perish [88, p.14] - (Zola, 1993) [[SELF, IDENTITY AND THE NAMING QUESTION]]

The user is a crip body melded to the machine through industrial design logics.


In this next section I bring this genealogy of configuration out of line with this research’s cripping axis of inquiry. To do this I aim to translate the inflection of access-able to to that of configure-able through a tracing of access-knowledge and critical access. With this disorientating inflection I aim to inform the STS methods of configuration through those of critical access and Aimi Hamraie's tracing of flexible users (2017) and their approach tracing of access-knowledge. To do this I take into focus my own experiences of organising access for others as well as requesting access myself as inquiries into configurating practices informed through access-knowledge.

To start this inquiry into critical access it is interesting to turn first to -able as a suffix or as what I am calling here a inflection. -able or -ible’s etymology is traced from middle English, that comes from a French incursion of “-able”, and an empirical root in Latin with “-abilis”. This suffix’s etymology inflects  “-able” to orient towards that of being able to do something, to enter, to be free from constraint or even gifted, but more specifically worthy of doing that thing or of being free. This sedimented line of “-able” being about worth is one that we still feel to this date, where questions of disabled people being worthy of access to basic care and a standard quality of life is still seemingly an open debate in the uk. Instead here, I ask us to take a step back and disobediently retreat from these normative terms of -able and think through how critical access and crip studies might reorient it otherwise. Interestingly on the retreat we may pass the Old English suffix of “-endlic” that “-able” straightened out and overruled. “-endlic” instead of focusing on the value or worthiness of the subject, focuses on the material capacity. Inflecting a word with it means it is capable to, or able to do something. Why I stop here to catch a breath on the retreat is because it denotes a key aspect of critical access that I want to highlight. It is not about a person being worthy of access, but it is to orient access as a collective flexibility to do what we can materially, and to be honest and open about those flex-abilities, capacities and contours. Kafer poses this here with the understanding of flexibility as "not just extra time" (2013, p.27) for disabled people, where "rather than bend disabled bodies and minds to meet the clock, crip time bends the clock to meet disabled bodies and mind"(ibid, p.27). This is similarly reflected on by Aimi Hamraie's tracing of the _flexible user_ and the _human factor_ (2017) within eugenics, industrial engineering and ergonomics beginning in the nineteenth century. The flexible "user" traced by Hamraie emerges from mass prosthetic manufacture after the world wars and poses soft human bodies, and the emergent human factor they make up within systems design, to be malleable problems to be cured by hard normalising machines and processes. In response Hamraie offers up the history of access-knowledge and of disabled people as knowers and makers to reorient to the flexibility of hard machines to be softer on and build up the capacities of indeterminate soft bodies and their situated needs. When we orient to how crip studies is practised around access in academia(Abrams, Floyd, and Abes 2024; Evans et al. 2024), and also from my own experiences of providing it, it is this place where we question the flexibility of the sedimented hard relations and politics of institutions, from the ways they conform disabled bodies within time and categories, to how these invalidating practices validate and bring peoples needs into dialogue.

> “The disability to come . . . will and should always belong to the time of the promise. . . . it’s a crip promise that we will always comprehend disability otherwise and that we will, collectively, somehow access other worlds and futures.”  
> —Robert McRuer, Crip Theor (McRuer and Bérubé 2006)

In the appendices of Feminist queer and crip Kafer (2013, 171–78) quotes McRuer above, before sharing her own materials from her practises of access. In this quote and in Kafer’s placement of it I interpret this “crip promise” that opens up crip futures as a promise of access that we make to ourselves and others around us. This promise of access for me is a call for life affirmation. It is a re-orienting and inflection of action that moves towards affirm lives through emergent daily practices of access. By basing life-affirmation on indeterminate access we don’t aim to determine what it is or can be but aim to (con)figure out the practices that can enable life affirmation to be know-able through access in action. Simply put access as life affirmation refuses a prescribed plan, and reverberates from its situated lived becomings.

Stating access as a promise orients not as a static set of “universal” solutions or cures, such as the historic "one best way" (2017, p. 61) that Hamraie talks of, but to where I am flexible within my capacities to reach all the access needs I can at that time. In this practise I know this is not something I can master or cure and there will never be a determinate "one bast way" or a solution to access. As Hamraie's forms it access-knowledge is produced through "Flexible knowing (knowledge of a range of embodiments) and flexible design (designing for those embodiments)", that form needs and access outcomes from situated bodies and not generalised or prescribed ones. Hamraie shares the histories of access knowledge through the reverberation of section 504, and where barrier free access started to come into equality laws. In this recollection they share the many misfitting, iterations and localisations of these laws, as disable activists tried to make room in the generalised state and international level access laws for the situated diverse needs of the people with disability within America. These range form the ways mandatory policies were made advisories when taken to other states (turned into extra time), how barrier free access was scoped towards more traditionally socially visible disabilities, and how institutionalised barrier free access also pushed for circulation and visibility of disabled people, instead of giving them agency over their lives.

This troubling and reverberating of the rulers line through access-knowledge itself comes to a position of validating the collective labours, the possibility of institutional flexibility and the situated knowledges that it takes to be in a place or relation together. Kafer demonstrates her access-knowledge through her practise of making scent free spaces, and where the expanded relational understanding of access it undertakes is explicit. This is where all participant must be conscious and intimate, thinking about what they clean themselves with and how they can stay chemical free until they reach the space. With Johanna Hedva’s _Sick Woman Theory_ (2016) they also think through the ways access-knowledge troubles the normative roles of activism, and asks how can their be more room for expressions from those who cannot always be there in person due to illness, capacities or other life commitments. Hedva here transforms the understanding of what it is we can offer when we show up for justice. Another recolection of the many contexts of access-knowledge in action is Ren Britton's _On Rehearsing Access_ (Britton, 2024) where access riders and their request are taken up as hacking tools to make room and flexibility in communities and institutions so disabled people can thrive within them. These patterns and practices of access knowledge differ greatly from a model of centralised control seen not only in the medical model, but also politics of neo-liberal austerity and their efficiency policies and imaginaries of sociopolitical infrastructures. In Suchman’s examples, some of my own, as well as Ahmed and Kafer’s work, we have offered up how the pivotal action in centralised control is a holding of a determined line in place through invalidating penal logics, which almost always negate and silence the material relations and feedback from bodies. 

Understanding access knowledge as a promise of flexibility instead of a checklist (Kafer 2017), approaches it as an ongoing process of situated negotiation and a radical space of flexing lines and wiggling room for crip folks to participate how they feel able and desire to. This indeterminate promise and practice of access knowledge in action can seem overwhelming in the way that it is non-prescriptive, in need of deep intimacy and care as well as often admitting to not really be able to really meet the full needs of people. Saying this though I have been finding comfort in returning to this -endlic inflection of -ability, turning it from worth and towards capacity. Access in these terms sees so many paths converging and diverging between communities and institutions at each situated and messy locality, lines being drawn and woven together to configure a holey tapestry. The spaces missed and gaps out of reach of our communities thread giving form and horizon to this body, and forming contours around what access is and can be. Here I am inquiring into how I approach my capacities when configuring access through a critical flexibility that aims to go between these divergent points, become intimate with the lines that divide us and practice going into the unknown together. 



### old

Suchman specifically in configuration again questions this through the axis of user/designer, reorienting how we can reconfigure the relations between plans/actions otherwise. Looking again at this axis through critical access, we can ask how we can enable these roles to be access-able to each other, making them flex-able to one other. Here thinking again to how we can query static delineation of people and their hierarchies through the generative gaps in situated ability, needs and desires woven between their figured roles. This though is also where me and my research sit, between the institution and tthe collective, between the dynamic and static, and the held in place and the wriggling bodies. This is where configure-able sits as a pry bar in the locked door, sitting between the static roles of institutions and the desires we have for community, collective and constellation based access. It is here as a practice of leverage and forming wiggle room between these two that I explore how we can enable the good enough collective practices of access around inflexible institutions to work around these systems and make the change we need now. This is also where this practice of access sees the holes between plan and action, not as something to punish, deffer, invalidate, silo or hide, but for them to be negotiated and cared for in practice. It aims for these gaps to be accessible and fed back from in the relation, and where these holes in our situated backgrounds. These holes sit between where we want to be (collective care) and where we are (institutional limits/dependencies) and give form to figures (crip with pry bar), orientations (leverage) and actions (opening) that can enable us access.