
#### Science Technology Studies (STS) Axis

In Suchman’s essay (ibid.) she gives two examples both covering self-proclaimed bench mark digital infrastructure projects within health. The first inquiry around an speculative one fits all data management system for one of the largest health management organisation (HMO) in the US by Judith Gregory (2000) and the second around the government of rural Andhra Pradesh (India) and their implementation of  their ‘Vision 2020’ policy, which undertook the implementation of a new health information infrastructures and documented by C. R. Ranjini (2007; 2006). I closely read into these two inquiries later on in this chapter, but Suchman brings them together to offer up and reflect on their mismatching between plans and actions, or in these examples the determined datafied figures and their indeterminate material backgrounds. In both examples Suchman shows that these systems inevitably fail, not because their task of creating comprehensive healthcare tools is impossible, but because of the efficient, normalising, and reductive imaginaries and politics that they were operated through. 

~~We see these dominative logics when the practices and methods of care from the community workers of ‘Vision 2020’ which are overruled. This is done by the efficient metricised logics of international neoliberal funding agencies, setting targets, and enforcing them through job loss and other systemic violences/punishments.~~

As I shared earlier in this chapter with the brief summary of configuration Suchman uses this framework to think through how the figures, metrics and imaginaries, work in action. With configuration she brings together both the ways in which “technologies materialize cultural imaginaries, just as imaginaries narrate the significance of technical artefacts” (Suchman 2012, 48). In doing this she brings in-line how we plan, imagine and narrate things being done (often sedimented from a centralised, generalised and prescribed approach), with how it is situated through localised practises and material bodily horizons. By bringing these things in-line she aims to form configuration as a method of analysis which can make room to making sense of the reverberations and frictions between situated knowings of systems through practise and the roles and figures which they can be reconfigured through. These two inquiries present this reverberation on each of their own bodily horizon to offer up what configuration as method is, and demonstrating how their sedimented norms can be radically disoriented through contingent practises of configuration.

The language I use at the end of the last paragraph is intentionally muddled with Ahmed’s from queer phenomenology (2006). This is not only because Ahmed’s work frames my research but also because Suchman’s configuration is also framed through Ahmed’s theories. Instead of queer phenomenology though, Suchman builds up from Ahmed’s figure of “the stranger”(2000). In this analysis she denotes how Ahmed forms the stranger not as one who is unknown, but instead is recognised as the stranger. Much like the line that divides the family table, that I talk about closely in [01.01.00_Orienting_the_table](../../01_Disability%20justice%20and%20life%20affirmation%20flipping%20the%20table/sections/01.01.00_Orienting_the_table.md), Suchman takes up Ahmed’s line of inherited delineation to show how “inside(r)s and outside(r)s” are drawn and sedimented. Suchman shows importantly how “the stranger” is formed through citing Marx’s commodity fetishism and reorients it into ‘a fetishism of figures’(Ahmed 2000, 4) that can hold the fantasy and materiality of things together in a plastic form. Suchman later in the essay follows up this figure of the stranger by asking how to trouble the divide between user/designer, and the inherent division between those who can configure out systems for strangers and those how have to live by strangers' figures.

Suchman gives these two examples in this essay to offer up how these sedimented roles and systems can be materially reconfigured through contingent relations of ordering. In the example she provides with Gregory, this done by thinking through Helen Verran’s “working knowledges together” (Verran 1998) that was formed in negotiations between Yolgnu Aboriginal community and Australian pastoralists. With Verran’s notion it thinks how to create a new intermediary set of imaginaries or figures that are not dependent on a translation into the hegemonic terms of the dominant party. Instead they try to form other modes of discourse between these dialogues that can form room for relations and politics through language and figures unimaginable through hegemonic norms. For Ranjini, it was a lower-level situated hackings from carers and workers of the Vision 2020 project that reconfigured the centralised care system to be able to function and get the funds and support their communities needed. With this work showing the power and agencies of those on the ground to transform and enable these systems through their situated knowledges, skills, and relationships, disobediently reconfiguring figures to make room for them and their communities to be funded and valid.

Working from these two examples Suchman defines configuration through a rigid STS axis. This means taking up examples which situate the work by embedding the STS expert within the field, through interviews, shadowing practitioners and researching paperwork. In some ways being embedded here for STS still means being a stranger, as quality research is only achieved through an exterior expert collating information to figure out these configurations reverberations. Suchman would debate this, as she does in her essay with Karen Barad’s notion of “Agency”(2007)[^2b] where she reminds us that we are entangled within the apparatus no matter our delineation. I very much agrees with this but within the framework set out with Ahmed’s table, I ask how much is in reach from these rigid STS positions? And how can we reorient configuration to make room for communities to reverberate between our matters and how we figure them out.

Especially in the context of this research, of refusing big tech complicity and figuring out other approaches to cloud computing and community infrastructures, it could be asked why not turn to a more recent example of configuring methods? It would be very logical to look to something like Louise Amoore's _Cloud Ethics_ (2020), where the centralised role of the expert is dispersed to those in touch with each other and the infrastructures. Her methodology also aligns with mine, where these challenges are made through counter figures, of telling narratives or stories, making songs and contextualising configurations in messy localities. I instead take this step back to Suchman's configuration (2012) not just because it helps to accessibly demonstrate the genealogy of configuration, but also as she takes up disabled matters, and life-affirming infrastructures. I later go on to show in cripping configuration that both Suchman and Amoore still seem to negate and invalidate disabled voices, politics and theory within their dialogues. In the next section's inquiry I firstly offer up how practices of critical access are in themselves radical impact centred configuring practices, and ones that configuring life-affirming infrastructures. In doing this I then return to this STS axis to share the necessity of this inflection of access, and why indeed we need to centre crip politics and practices in these debates, not negate and invalidate them.


[^2b]: “As Barad reminds us, we are always already inside the worlds that we take as the objects of our actions” (Suchman 2012, 57)
