### Configuration 

Configuration much like configure-able is an inflection, a changing in tone, context and approach of figure which “fixes” it into another generative materially entangled orientation. Lury et al. (ibid., 8) define configuring as a practice within complex systems design that enables it to join diverse elements into arrangement, never final even when "stable". It doesn’t refer to the final arrangement of components, but instead this practise of coalescing them together. Due to configuring being this process of bringing figures into action, as well as bringing the diverse elements of infrastructure together, it has been taken up by Science Technology Studies (STS) as a cornerstone critical methodology and mode of analysis. Lury et al. here points to Lucy Suchman’s definition of Configuration to demonstrate how this methodology can make room for us to inquire with “\[a]t once action and effect”(2012, 49). Suchman’s definition enables us to understand how the stories we tell and figures we hold in place produce specific sedimented practices of ordering. In configuration as method she makes room for a mode of analysis that can be an un/remaking through material practises and their knowledges. Lury et al. go on to trace configuration through the work of D. N. Rodowick (2001), Michel Foucault’s notion of similitude(2020), as well as Donna Haraway’s “string figures”(1997) and her Cyborg Manifesto (2006) (1985), which we covered in the crip table chapter. These movements by Lury et al. in many ways orients us towards their understanding of Elizabeth Povinelli (2016) and Michelle Murphy (2017) work as practices of forming figures “equal to contemporary political configurations”(Lury, Viney, and Wark 2022, 10). Configure-able methods as I will go on to offer up, moves with these approaches of forming counter figures, but also (un)fixes these practices through impact centred design methods of critical access to form wiggle room for these counter figures and configurations from these sites of impact and friction.

To understand the importance of the (un)fixing and disorientation of -able further I am going to return to Suchman’s definition in her Configuration essay (2012) that Lury et al. touch on. This deeper reading of Suchman’s Configuration is due to it making room for me to understand why and how my research finds the need to inflect configuration through impact centred critical access methods and my disobedient methods. In doing this I am not aiming to de-legitimise this field, or Suchmans work, but to dance with them and to trouble the sedmineted norms they emerge from. In fact Suchman is taken up here as a refined version of STS, and an axis of STS for which I can crip configuration from. The other reason for choosing Suchman’s definition is that in this essay she takes up medical infrastructures and with them the infrastructures of disability. Much like Alison Kafer’s taking up of disability within Haraway’s cyborg, which I discuss in the crip table chapter. I am taking up a topic where disability is visible in the background but not yet felt. Here I am making wiggle room for the crip figure to emerge and with it highlighting crip politics, methods, practices and approaches I want to bring into the inquiries of my communities infrastructure.

