### A Cozier Configure-Ability

[06.00_Intro](../../06_A_Cozier_Configure-Able_Methods/06_entries/06.00_Intro.md) reflects on a second inquiry into Configure-Able methods. In this context I wanted to inquire into how I could start to form a crip centred network practice. To do this I formed the Cozy-Cloud as a server space that was made for and by disabled people. This server acts as wiggle room for collaborators and me to try to configure out what life affirming network infrastructures might be like in action. This inquiry into a configure-able crip cloud is developed through both manifesting cripped technical infrastructure, but also the social relations of interdependent care that not only produced but maintain this crip network infrastructure. In this inquiry I surface two artistic works that share how these localised crip centred manifestations of Configure-Able methods have come into being.

The first work explores my manifesting of cozy intentions for the server as I initially made it. These intentions were made by developing a set of sticker and alt text pairs. This work by centring alt texts as medium configure access to the front of their composition to highlight the capacity that access practices already have. These capacities of access in the alt texts both lay in them being able to communicate the images content to wider audiences with sensory differences, but also makes the alt text accessible within reduced internet bandwidth that cannot support images. Through these sticker and alt text pairs I poetically manifest a set of cozy intentions for the Cozy-Cloud to emerge from. Each of these forming their own multi-media non-linear orientation for what this server and infrastructure is intending to make room for and within. These intentions in message orient towards forming network infrastructures that do not rely on imaginaries of infinite growth, weaponized economies and exhaustive relations. They intend to do this by making room for computational practices and network infrastructures that intimately retreat away from their militaristic origins and imaginaries. Alongside these intentions I also manifested the Cozy-Cloud relaxation space for people to be in reach of this crip server infrastructure and its cozy intentions in a relaxing calm environment. To emphasise this multi-sensory/media set of intentions I also made cozy fluffy cushions, a printable easy read version of the cozy intentions and physical versions of the stickers, so that those visiting can interact and feel these intentions in a way that is comfy and accessible to them. In doing this opening up how I can form many ways of communicating these technical relations and my intedned approaches towards them so that people can be in touch with them, and figure them out through their own embodied knowing and expertise.

The second work I surface in this chapter is that of the En-crip-ing Time, which was a collaboration with Marianna Marongoni[^q9]. This work inquired into how to crip both the time and intimacies of the Cozy-Cloud server and its relations to network infrastructures. To do this we configured out our own poetic performance of cron jobs (deterministic and routine maintenance jobs on Unix operating systems) as chronic jobs (indeterminate, indefinite care and maintenance through intimacy). To make room for crip times here we hacked multiple bits of code and syntax to wiggle room within the existing infrastructural limits of network time for our poetic crip times. In this work we also highlight the social aspects of making the infrastructure together, and how to do this we made room for each other, our capacities and our needs so that this crip infrastructure could come into being. I also touch upon the essay that we wrote for Brand-New-Life about the work (Simms & Marangoni, 2025), and where we try to blur the boundaries, variability and formats of academic texts to both hold technical dialogues, but also the very crip feeling Marianna and I had around them.

I conclude the chapter by both reflecting back at these projects and how they have transformed network practices by bring them in touch with crip bodies, tables and politics, but also to orient forward to the futures that the Cozy-Cloud is approaching. This future is one of slowly building up more collaborations and infrastructures to figure out in action what accessible and configure-able crip network practices can be. Whatever may lay in the indeterminate future of the Cozy-Cloud, I know we will orient from critical access today, to make room for life affirming infrastructures of tomorrow.

[^q9]: https://marianamarangoni.com/
