### Disobedient Action Research Cycles

[04.00_Disobedient_Action_Research_Cycles](../../04_Disobedient_Action_Research_Cycles/04_entries/04.00_Disobedient_Action_Research_Cycles.md) covers my methodology for the research where I define my Disobedient Action Research approach which is the methodology I enacted to feel out the Configure-Able methods mentioned earlier. Disobedient Action Research stems from Action Research (AR), which is a type of research that centres practitioners as knowledge creators through doing, making and being in relation to the material world. Disobedient AR specifically emerges from a type of AR called First Person AR, which Judi Marsh established with her notion of Living Life as Inquiry (LLI) (Gearty & Marshall, 2021; Marshall, 1999, 2004). Living Life as Inquiry and First Person AR orient to situate themselves further within the role of the practitioner as a knowledge maker. It does this by making room for the practitioner to bring their background, context and embodied feelings into their research practice (otherwise known as their first person perspective). This offers a type of research where we have the capacity to acknowledge where the research is coming from contextually and relationally, as well as emotionally.

Disobedient Action Research, which TITiPI as well as Possible Bodies (Pritchard, Rocha, and Snelting 2021; TITiPI, Ango, and Lepage 2022) established, in some ways extends this orientation, but in other ways troubles it. Disobedient Action Reseach extends it through making room for us to do First Person Action Research interdependently. This moves the knowledge making process from being within the self, to in between the collective embodied selves. Disobedient Action Research also troubles First Person Action Research by making demands of direct action and change. Even though First Person AR calls for "change agents", it is Disobedient AR that orients to question the limits change agents can make. Specifically in the context of computer science and open source software community Possible Bodies ask questions like what of the big issues we feel around computing can actually be broken down and squeezed like (code) bugs? And how can we give feedback and get feedback from places where it is purposefully lacking?

I chose to use Disobedient Action Research as it aligns well with my existing practice as a creative developer and community practitioner. It also makes ample room for my context of being a crip researcher, one where I question the scales and limits of politics and their relations. In this it questions what participating within their defined limits offers us, and for us to inquire into how to make change around, within and to those limits. Disobedient AR also makes room for me to work with the collectives and communities that I do, and to try to feel out our collective, local and embodied refusal of Big Tech. Disobedient AR as a methodology in practice also made room for me to develop my own Configure-Able methods, which is what I go on to emerge throughout the rest of this thesis.

