### Configuration 

Configuration much like configure-able is an inflection, a changing in tone, context and approach of figure which “fixes” it into a generative materially entangled orientation. Lury et al. (ibid., 8) define configuring as a practice within complex systems design that makes room to join diverse elements into arrangement, never final even when "stable". It doesn’t refer to the final arrangement of components, but instead this practise of coalescing them together. Due to configuring being this process of bringing figures into action, as well as bringing the diverse elements of infrastructure together, it has been taken up by Science Technology Studies (STS) as a cornerstone critical methodology and mode of analysis. Lury et al. here points to Lucy Suchman’s definition of Configuration to demonstrate how this methodology can make room to inquire with “\[a]t once action and effect”(2012, 49). Suchman’s definition makes room to understand how the stories that are told and the figures that are held in place produce specific sedimented practices of ordering. In configuration as method she makes room for a mode of analysis that can be an un/remaking through material practises and their knowledges. Lury et al. go on to trace configuration through the work of D. N. Rodowick (2001), Michel Foucault’s notion of similitude(2020), as well as Donna Haraway’s “string figures”(1997) and her Cyborg Manifesto (1985), which I touch on more in the [01.02.04_Cripping_Technoscience](../../01_Disability_justice_and_life_affirmation_flipping_the_table/sections/01.02.04_Cripping_Technoscience.md) section. These movements by Lury et al. in many ways orients towards their understanding of Elizabeth Povinelli (2016) and Michelle Murphy (2017) work as practices of forming figures “equal to contemporary political configurations”(Lury, Viney, and Wark 2022, 10). Configure-Able Methods as I will go on to offer up, moves with these approaches of forming counter figures, but also (un)fixes these practices through impact centred design methods of critical access. Here making room to form wiggle room through these counter figures to disorient configurations from their sites of impact and friction.

To understand the importance of the (un)fixing and disorientation of -able further I am going to return to Suchman’s definition in her Configuration essay (2012) that Lury et al. touches on. This deeper reading of Suchman’s Configuration is due to it making room for me to understand why and how my research finds the need to disorient configuration through impact centred critical access methods and my disobedient methods. In doing this I am not aiming to de-legitimise this field, or Suchman's work, but to dance with them and to trouble the sedmineted norms they emerge from. In fact Suchman is taken up here as a refined version of STS, and an axis of STS for which I can disobediently crip and disorient configuration from. The other key reason for choosing Suchman’s definition is that in this essay she takes up medical infrastructures and with them the infrastructures of disability. Much like Alison Kafer’s taking up of disability within Haraway’s cyborg, which I discuss in the [01.02.04_Cripping_Technoscience](../../01_Disability_justice_and_life_affirmation_flipping_the_table/sections/01.02.04_Cripping_Technoscience.md) section. I am taking up a definition of configuration where disability is in the background but not yet made known or brought in reach of the research. Here I am making wiggle room within these STS methods for the disabled figure to emerge and with them disobediently bringing their crip politics, methods, practices and approaches.

